3 6 TOURIST PROGRAMMES

from America to Egypt and Palestine, either through
F Europe or by the Routes of Japan, China and India, or
by New Zealand and Australia, Mr. THOS. COOK has started
on his advertised Tour Round the World, hoping to reach.
Egypt by the tirne_stlitable for Trips up and down the
Nile, and then to Palestine, Turkey, Greece and Italy.
Already a number of Americans are registered to accompany him from New York, Chicago, and other places in the
United States; and the principle on which they enter upon
the Tour is to make an entire circuit, returning to the point
from which they start for a fixed sum, to include the dblotir
to the Nile and Palestine. This great Experimental Tour
is expected to constitute the basis of future arrangements
for Through Tickets for the entire circuit.

To facilitate the working out of American arrangements
3:; an Office will be opened in NEW YORK, under the copartnery and joint management of

COOK, SON, AND JENKINS.

The gentleman with whom Messrs. COOK & SON have
entered into these joint arrangements is Mr. E. M. JENKINS,

of Allegheny, Pa., who organized the visit of the Knights
Templar to Europe in the summer of 1871, and who has
since accompanied a second party to England in the month

of August, 1872. Mr. J ENKINS has thus acquired a thorough

knowledge of the Tourist System of THOMAS COOK & SON,
and enters upon the work in America with their full confidence.

Already Messrs. COOK ge, SON have had the patronage of

great numbers of ladies and gentlemen from the United
States. many of whom have expressed earnest desires that

facilities should be offered in America similar to those

afforded to Tourists in Great Britain, on the Continent
of Europe, and in the East. Seven years ago Mr. THOMAS
COOK visited the United States and Canada, for the express

purpose of making arrangements for a great system of

INTERNATIONAL Times, and his proposals met with a cordial

response from the Managers of over 4, 000 miles of Railroad,
and several of the Ocean Steamboat Companies also acceded
to his proposals for Through Bookings. Subsequently, Mr.




