FOR THE EAST. 37

JOHN M. COOK accompanied a party of about thirty to the
States, most of whom extended their Tour as far as Chicago,
St. Louis, the Mammoth Cave of Kentucky, the battle-fields
of the South, Washington, Baltimore, Philadelphia, Boston,
the Falls of Niagara, the islands of the St. Lawrence, and
Canada. In Iti07, the year of the Great Exhibition of
Paris, Mr. JOHN M. COOK again visited Canada'and the
United States for the purpose of completing arrangements
for the great attraction in Paris, and he left America with
the best assurances of the Companies interested, that his
labours should have their eo-operation. But all these
proposals and promises of support were frustrated by the
jealousies and concealed opposition of local agents, and it
became quite evident that the only way to secure the result
of our proposals would be to arrange with some one equally
interested with ourselves, who, on the spot, should be accessible alike to Travellers and those who have the management of Railroads and Steamboats; and that is the position
"iN occupied by our co-partner, Mr. E. M. J ESKINS.

These preliminary explanations were felt to be necessary,
as an introduction to the PROGRAMMES, which are designed
for AMERICA as well as for ENGLAND and the EUROPEAN
CONTINENT',' and, as a farther preface to the arrangements
of the coming season, the following

HISTORICAL NOTES OF COOK'S EASTERN
- TOURS

Are copied from recent numbers of the Eawrsionish The
personality of this brief narrative is preserved, as the idea
of Eastern Tours originated with, and the system has
been mainly developed by, Mr. THOMAS COOK, who thus
writes:
I
l

Although in the arranging and carrying out of Tours to
the East I have had the constant and energetic co-operation
of my Son, I adhere, for special reasons, to the personal
pronoun in my brief notes of their origin, progress, and
results.

I make no pretensions to the origination of Tours to the
Holy Land, as I remember to have Men, more than twenty
years ago, proposals advertised in Scottish periodicals, of a





Public Domain, GoogIe-digitized / http: //www.hathitrust.org/access_use # pd-goc§g

' enera ed or SARAH KETCHLEY (University 0 Washing on) on 2014-01-02 05: 9




