FOR THE EAST. 41

sorry to be in any way identified with such defalcations as
were voluntarily reported to me on my last visit to Jaffa.
A Vienna contractor once wrote me proposals for partnership Tours to the East. I replied that I always preferred
to do my own work, in my own way, and to bear my own
responsibilities. The next I heard of the poor fellow was
____... that he had sent a Courier with a party to Palestine. On
the way his funds were exhausted. He wrote to his
employer for money to enable him to proceed, but instead
of sending "the needful" to rescue his representative, the
unfortunate speculator terminated by poison the lives of
______: himself, wife, and two or three children. Only the other
day a Travelling Agent from Vienna came to 98, Fleet
Street, to beg for employment, stating that he had been
engaged, by somebody of Vienna, to conduct a party of

four gentlemen round the world, but his funds were exhausted on arrival in London, and he could not get means
to go forward. The case was represented to the Austrian
Consul, but nothing could be done with it, and the gentle
men had to stop short in their proposed Tour. A proposal
which we now have from Vienna, representing 10 to 20
candidates for a Round-the-World Tour, looks very auspieiously, and we shall most certainly persevere in our own

work and bear our own burdens. We neither wish to copy,
nor be copied. I have been led into this digression by
circumstances connected with Eastern Tours; but enough
of it-I return to my story.

TOURS OF FOUR SEASONS TO THE NILE,
PALESTINE, & e.

It is not necessary to particularize the details of the
whole of these Tours. Their totals present an aggregate
of nearly 400 voyagers up and down the N ile, from the
Arsenal of Boulak (Cairo) to the head of the First
Cataract, including the Island of Philae, and the granite
quarries of Syene, from whence were obtained all the
monoliths and other immense granite blocks, shaped into
forms, raised to positions, and demolished in ways and by
agencies of skill and power which puzzle modern artists and
meehanieiane.








