I i i
: a
l 5
}
I g i
I
a. 3
i l
5.



42 TOURIST PROGRAMMES

In the early spring of 1869 we had two Steamers; in
1870 one large Steamboat, with over 40 passengers; in
1871 again two Boats, and in 1872 the whole of the Steamboat pleasure traffie of the Government of the Khédive has.
been entrusted to our agency. Whatever may be the special
advantages of Dahabeahs, the Steamboat alone enables Nile
Voyager's to calculate time and cost with any degree of
certainty. During one Dahabeah voyage of the late season,
costing each passenger? S70 to £80, the excellent Steamers
engaged in the service mad e nearly three complete voyages,
and gave all the time required at chief stopping places.
:1: On our way up and down we passed many Dahabeahs
struggling against adverse winds, where passengers would
- - e have been thankful to have been transferred to our
Steamers. Under the watchful care and business habits of
Mr. Etaerosberger, the berths and food supplies were greatly
improved, and a new interest altogether was given to the
traffie.'

In the transit from the Nile to Palestine, there are many
objects of historic interest to engage thoughtful attention
Taa - in the land of the ancient Pharaohs; and in the modern

country of the Khédive there are strange transformations
and aggressions on ancient Egyptian life and habits.

The SUEZ CANAL is one of the greatest marvels of
modern science, and it has been our pleasure to send many
over those mixed waters of the Mediterranean, the Red Sea,
3 """ and the Sweet and Bitter Lakes and Canals. It was one
of the red-letter days of my Tourist life to be present at
the opening ceremony of the Suez Canal; though my

party was but a small one of half a score, owing to the
uncertainty in which I had been held by a Steamboat
Company.

An Excursion to Suez, and from thence to the Wells of
Moses, will be found of the greatest interest. Immediately
opposite is the Valley of the Wanderings, and the intervening part of the Red Sea is the reputed scene of the
miraculous passage of the Israelites and the overthrow of
Pharaoh and his hosts.

From PORT SAID to Jennie now but a Trip of ten or a
dozen hours, and I have been singularly fortunate in all
my approaches to and departures from the Holy Land at

It.




