FOR THE EAST. 47

the great majority of Eastern travellers feel the need of
assistance. We have often been amused to see how close
small parties of "independents "kept to our large encampments, generally occupying ground within gun-shot of us.

The fact is, a tolerably strong party is, for many reasons,
.-.-.., _ best for Palestine. In management there is no more real
difficulty than for smaller numbers, as a proportionate
number of servants is engaged, and the work of striking
and pitching tents is done quite as expeditiously as for a
""" W small number. For a large party there are arrangements
to get the largest supplies of the best food, and the Dra- goman is in a better position to engage escorts and military
guards when they are required. It is a pleasant thing to
sit down at a "table in the wilderness," with a score or so
of congenial friends.

But we are prepared for any number, from three to threescore, to be divided and sub-divided as they choose. Parties
of two or three will have to pay more than five, and five
more than ten; whilst for ten and all above, our terms will
be uniform, in the early months of the year. In the autumn
we cannot command numbers to make the travelling as cheap
as in the early spring.

ROUTES TO THE EAST.

_ The opening of new lines of railway, and changes in steam
navigation, naturally afftet all our arrangements for travelling
to the East. It is to our interest, as well as to the interest
and comfort of travellers, to adhere to those Lines and
Companies which have previously proved most favourable
to our plans, and where we may reasonably expect the most
pleasant recognition.

GOING TO ITALY there are about half-a-dozen Routes
available. We can go over the Alps by Railway or Diligence;
under the Alps by Mont Genie Tunnel; and as the Corniche
road is now open, we can get from Paris to Italy by Railway
without a break of journey, and without a seven miles tunnel
ride. The Trip through Italy may be made as a single
journey to Trieste or Brindisi, or a Circular Tour may be
made to include the chief cities in the country. This can
be arranged for either the outward or the return journey.






