48 TOURIST PROGRAMMES

(h, STEAMERS there are several lines available from Trieste
_ or Brindisi. Our connection with the Austrian Lloyds has
been most satisfactory, and for special Palestine parties we
wish to adhere to that Company as closely as possible; hence
our plans are laid and Fares calculated on the arrangements
""___, of their Steamers from Trieste or Brindisi and Corfu. We can
_____ give Tickets to start from either point, and if parties will go
---=_77; by other routes, we shall deduct from the Fare the amount
that we should pay the Austrian Lloyds as far as Alexandria.
For the Syrian Coast no other Line affords equal facilities
for the various Levantine Ports; and for making the call
at Athens, the Austrian Lloyds are the most convenient
steamers. It is, therefore, to the mutual interest of Contractor and Passengers to do all we can for the Austrian
Lloyds Steamers. We offer the facility of starting any Friday
night from Trieste, or any Sunday from Corfu, for Alexandria,
by their accelerated Line, and we can supply Tickets for
their Steamers from Brindisi to Corfu, in connection with
Tickets from London to Brindisi, by any open road. In
returning we can supply Tickets for entering Italy at Venice
or Brindisi, or if any wish to go by any other route, from
Constantinople or Athens, we will provide Tickets for them,
or deduct an equitable proportion of the Fares, in accordance with the principle already stated.

In EGYPT we have the Railways and the Suez Canal
Steamers at command, and all our Tickets for Personallyconducted Parties will include trips to the Pyramids.

FARES AND CONDITIONS OF TOURS FOR
INDEPENDENT TRAVELLING PARTIES.

RomrE.--London by Mont Cenis, Spliigen, St. Gotthard,
or Brenner, to Venice and Trieste; Trieste to Corfu and
Alexandria; Alexandria to Cairo, the Pyramids of Gizeh,
Ismailia, and through the Suez Canal to Port Said; Port
Said to J affa to J erusalem, the J ordan, Dead Sea,
Jericho, Bethlehem, Hebron, and back by Jerusalem to
Samaria, Galilee, Damascus, Baalbec, over the Lebanon to
Beyrout; Beyrout to Cyprus, Rhodes, Scio, Smyrna, Ephesus,
Mitylene, Dardanelles, and Constantinople; Constantinople
to Syre, Athens, Corfu, and back to Trieste; Trieste to








