52 TOURIST PROGRAMMES

._-__: itinerary and daily arrangements are given for each Tour,
and if any choose to depart from his Programme, they will
be provided with the Travelling and Hotel Coupons, or an
equivalent will be returned to them in money, and the
_ Conductor will be relieved from all responsibility. Heretofore a sum of Four Guineas has been taken for the defrayment of extras, but many have desired that one single
payment should cover the whole, and for that purpose
Bi, los. is now added to former Fares.

THE DRAGOMAN makes one special condition affecting
Jerusalem and Damascus, the only cities where there is
Hotel accommodation likely to tempt the travellers. Be
engages that he will pay for accommodation in the Hotels,
on the condition that the travellers pay to him five shillings
If' per day extra whilst they are absent from the camp. This
F-al is a reasonable proportion of Hotel charges, inasmuch as
31.: the Dragonvan's arrangements and expenses remain the
same, except in the matter of food. His cook and all other
servants have to be paid just the same as though they were
fully employed.

THE BEST TIME FOR ORGANIZED TOURS

Is in J anuary or February, those going up the Nile or to
Sinai requiring about three weeks or a month prior to the
first week in March, the best time for entering Palestine.
Those who go to Lower Egypt and Palestine, without the
ta Nile or Sinai, may leave about the middle of February, as

they require about seventeen days from London for Lower
Egypt, the Suez Canal, gee., before landing at Jaffa or
Beyrout.

EXTRA OR ABRIDGED TIME IN PALESTINE

Can be provided for at the proportionate rates quoted above
for that division of the Tours. Some are content with a
fortnight for seeing J eruealem and the region round about,
and for them the Fares will be reduced considerably,
according to their numbers: and for those who require
extra time, the additional Fares will be charged on the
same principle. All other cases of abridgment or addition
to Tours will be met in a spirit of equity and fairness.








