FOR THE EAST. 53

But for the Dragoman'g department it is necessary to say
in advance, whether the time required is two weeks, four
weeks, six weeks, or more. Allowance cannot be made for
abridgments of Tours in Palestine after the engagement
has once been made. It is easier to increase than to
abridge the time, as an engagement made for horses, mules,
servants, tents, Gee., cannot be broken by the Dragoman.

It is also important for the Travellers to decide beforehand what route they will take from Palestine to Europe,
whether they wish to include or omit Constantinople, or'
Athens, or both, and which way they wish to return, m'd
Brindisi and through Southern and Central Italy, or by
Trieste and North Italy. Either of these routes can be
provided for by pre-arrangement; but the Fares above
quoted do not provide for a double journey through Italy,
between Brindisi, Naples, Rome, and the Alps. If any wish
both to go and return that way, they must pay £2 extra on
the Tickets.

Any number of European Hotel Coupons above fifteen
days can be supplied at their advertised rates of Te. 6d.
per day, with or without additional Supplements for extras,
which are sold in books of los. and 20s. each.

FOR THE EAST, twenty days' Coupons are provided, as,
according to the advertised times of the Steamer sailings,
that number is suificient for the time allotted to the Tour,
which gives eight days to Lower Egypt, from Alexandria
to Cairo and Ismailia; two days at Beyrout; five days at
Constantinople; and five days at Athens. It is impossible
to foresee all contingencies that may arise in the East, and
that may cause detention or curtailment of time; but twenty
days is a fair calculation, and for that time only can the
Contractors for the Tours be responsible. They can neither
control 1101' be responsible for the irregularities of Steamboats.
It frequently happens that those who combine the Nile Trip
with Palestine are detained a day or two 011 the Nile,
especially when the water is low, and in those cases the
travellers gain the advantage of having surplus Coupons
tudricient to cover the charges of wayside and occasional
refreshments, as Messrs. Cook & Son hold themselves
responsible for payment of Coupons for twenty days,
between the time of landing at Alexandria and embarkation








