FOR THE EAST. 57

Arriving at Alexandria on a Thursday or Friday, on
Saturday the party will proceed to CAIRO, and on about

Wednesday in the following week the voyage up the Nile
will be commenced. That voyage may be supposed to
occupy twenty days, the return being on the Tuesday or

Wednesday three weeks. This will leave'two or three days
more for Cairo and the locality, the Pyramids being seen
either before or after the Nile Trip, as may be found most
convenient.

RETURNING TO Canto, the route from thence to ISMAILIA
is through the fertile plains of the ancient land of Goshen,
and the Trip by Railway is usually made on Friday, to be in
readiness on Saturday morning for the Steamer on the Suez
Canal to PORT SAID, where the Mail Steamer arrives at
about 3 p.m. We usually dine at the Hotel (10 France,
Port Said, and then go on board the Austrian Lloyd's
Steamer for JAFFA, where we are due early on Sunday
morning. We hope to be there on the first Sunday in
March, and to find tents pitched in readiness for departure
en the following day.

Sunday is our FIRST DAY in Palestine, and is spent in
searching out historical places, generally beginning with the
"house of one Simon, "tanner," beautifully situated by the
sea-side. There are other sites less marked and more
questionable than that of Simon's house. The orange groves
attract all visitors, and it is also pleasant on some part
of the Lord's Day, to have a religious service, which is
usually held in the school-room of the devoted teacher, Miss
Arnott, who for more than ten years has been actively
engagedin her laudable work.

Monday, the SECOND Day, we travel across the PLAINS 0F
SHARON to RAMLEH, where we take lunch under the arches
of an ancient Khan, and then proceed to the valley of
AJALON, where we pitch our tents for the night.

Tuesday, the THIRD DAY, our tents are struck at an
early hour, as we purpose to pass by the most uninteresting
side of Jerusalem, and to encamp at night at SOLOMON'S
POOLS. We stop for lunch near Kirjath Jearim, or by the
side of that brook where tradition says David took up the








