I.allt
ow
numo u.
_ CE
lllMa
'C
Q.
ii?
O)
m
El
m
m
G)
u
u
(University of Washington) on 2014-01-02 0



58 TOURIST PROGRAMMES

smooth stones with which he slew the giant Goliath. The
road over the mountains is exceedingly interesting, and
affords from some points magnificent views of the Plains of
Sharon, and the blue waters of the Mediterranean beyond.
Leaving Jerusalem on our left, we skirt the valley of
Hinnom, pass at a distance the Hill of Evil Counsel, and
the Potters' Field, and stop our horses at the Tomb of
Rachel, the alleged site of which is covered by a small
mosque, or house of prayer, with a dark chamber, 01' vault,
behind. Remounting horses, we see Bethlehem on our left,
very beautifully situated on high ground. On our right,
we get fine views of beautifully cultivated grounds, with
interesting modern villages, in which are Greek and Latin
Convents. The forest of olives is very beautiful. By
8olomon's Pools we get excellent camping ground, with a
plentiful supply of delicious water, which was of old conducted to Jerusalem, and still runs in a peculiarly constructed aqueduct to Bethlehem.

Wednesday, the FOURTH DAY, leaving the camp early in
the morning, a long ride brings us to Hebron, where is the
Cave of Machpelah, in which Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob,
are believed by all intelligent visitors to have been
entombed. We return to the camp at the Pools of Solomon,
and rest there another night.

Thursday, the FIFTH DAY, we pass by a deep valley on
the right, where peaches grow in great profusion, and the
land watered from the Pools is very fertile. Here was said
to have been the gardens of Solomon, and it is not difficult
to realize the historical fact that some of those gafdens
that the wise king planted were really in this beautiful
valley. At noon we reach BETHLEHEM, and cannot fail to
be deeply interested by our visit to the caves of the rocks
in which the Saviour was born of the Virgin. The village
and the people are interesting, though they pester us sadly
with their beads and mother-of-pearl articles. We either
lunch at the Convent attached to the Church of the Nativity, or descend the hill to the plains where shepherds
watched their flocks and angels sang of the Saviour's
birth. An enclosure, called the Shepherds' Field, is a
pleasant place for our mid-day meal. After lunch we




