FOR THE EAST. 59

pursue our uneven course over the wilderness of Judea,
and while our tents are being pitched and dinner prepared,
we call to see that singular Monastery of MAR SABA, built
in the rock on the side of the Kedron. We presently
encamp pretty near .to the black tents of wandering
Bedouins, who always conduct themselves towards us with
propriety.

Friday, SIXTH DAt--We again scale mountains, descend
into deep ravines, and then emerge into the Talley of the
Dead Sea, at the shore of which we dismount, and most of
the visitors test the truth of the statement that it is not
possible to get under the water in attempting to swim.
From the Dead Sea we ride over the plains to the Jordan,
and take lunch on its bank, near where, tradition says, the
Saviour was baptised. We cross the broad valley and
encamp at Jericho, near to the Fountain of Elisha, the
waters of which irrigate and fructify a large area of very
"lill productive soil. We are sure to be visited at night by
natives of a village in the locality, who get up a sort of
Indian war-ery and dance in the style of savages. A few
piastres from each of the party are well appropriated in
conciliating these unpleasant-looking neighbours.

Saturday, the SEVENTH DAY, is spent in ascending the
hills from Jericho to the summit of the MOUNT Oh' OLIVES,
from which point a view of Jerusalem is obtained which
reconciles all to the passing by and keeping at a distance
from the city until this glorious sight could be obtained.
We pass BETHANY in our ascent to the top of the Mount of
Olives, and our memories are filled with the stories of J esus,
and Mary, and Martha, and Lazarus, and the scenes and
circumstances of New Testament history. We pitch our
tents somewhere near the walls of the city, and feel that
we have reached a climax in our Tour.

Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday, the EIGHTH, NINTH, and
TENTH DAYS, are spent about, in, and around Jerusalem,
exploring and visiting all the chief objects and places of
historic interest. It is impossible to partieularise all that
can be seen within, around, and under the modern city; but
by working hard it will be possible to get away in time






