60 TOURIST PROGRAMMES

to reach Nazareth for the next Sunday, and as that is an
object to be aimed at, we, therefore, on

Wednesday, the ELEVENTH DAY, leave J erusalem for the
division of Samaria. At noon we lunch at BETHEL, where
Jacob had his wonderful vision of the ladder reaching to
heaven, as he rested his weary head on a pillow of stone.
We afterwards pass through a richly cultivated region of
fig trees and olive trees; the mountain sides being terraced
and planted, as they doubtless were in the days when the
land yielded its abundance. We pass through a deep
ravine, unpleasantly designated the Robbers' Glen, and our
Dragomans fire their revolvers and guns frequently, either
to try the echoes, or to warn marauders of their approach.
The valley has a bad reputation, and we are glad to be able
to get through it and rest for the night at Sinjel, on a
high point, commanding fine views of Shiloh and the surrounding plains and hills, where the children of Israel are
said to have mustered in millions. There was ample room
for them.

Thursday, the TWELFTH DAY, we call at Shiloh in the
morning, and afterwards travel over a rich plain, amongst
fine crops of wheat and barley, till we come to JACOB'S
WELL, near the entrance of the valley which lies between
Mount Ebal and Mount Gerizim. All are interested to
learn if there is water still in the ancient well, and if a
cord can be obtained, a bucket or jar can be let down to
try the test. We have seen a cord of 70 feet let down into
the well without any water being brought up, and we have
seen a jar brought up full of beautiful water from a depth
of 35 feet. We halt for the night at NABLOUS, the ancient
Shechem, or Sychar. Nablous contains a large population,
and Dean Stanley says there is in it the oldest and the
smallest sect in the world-the sect of the Samaritans, who
still conduct worship in accordance with ancient practices,
and who yearly offer gacrifices on their historical mountain.

Friday, the THIRTEENTH DAY, we again traverse historical ground, calling at the modern village on the alleged
site of the ancient city of Samaria, visit the Church of
St. John, and afterwards descend the hill on the top of
which is supposed to have stood the Ivory Palace of Ahab.






