FOR THE EAST. 61

The mountain range of Carmel is fall in view, and the extensive plain through which we pass bears excellent crops
of grain. We pass DOTHAN, where Joseph was sold by
his brethren, and at night encamp at J ENIN, near the
entrance to the field of Esdraelon.

Saturday, the FOURTEENTH DAY, we cross the plains of
Esdraelon and Jezreel, see the Fountains of Jezreel and
Gideon; lunch at Shunem, under the lemon trees, pass on
our right Mount Tabor, see in the distance the villages of
Nain and Endcr, and then ascend the steep path of the
hills of Galilee, until we come within sight of beautifullysituated NAZARETII. This is a charming place for Sabbath
repose, and it is rendered the more interesting to British
Christians by the erection of a beautiful little church,
where English worship is conducted. There are two
churches of the Annunciation, one at each end of the
village, the Greeks claiming one spot and the Latins
another as the place where the angel appeared to Mary.
Other legends abound here, and the modern water-bearers
attract much attention.

Sunday, the FIFTEENTH DAY, being spent at Nazareth, on

Monday, the SIXTEENTH DAY, we proceed over the hills
and through the plains of Galilee, to the Lake of Genessaret,
the Lake of Tiberias, or the Sea of Galilee, by whatever
name this principal lake of Palestine is called. Here we
prepare to spend two days, as it is notably one of the
loveliest spots in the country, and, historically, no other
place in Palestine excels it in interest. We therefore stay
here over Tuesday, the SEVENTEENTII DAY, and strike our
tents again on

Wednesday, the EIGHTEENTII DAY, and travel to the plain
by the waters of Merom, where we encamp for the night on
an island, between two running streams, fed by the famous
fountains of Ain Mallahah.

Thursday, the NINETEENTH DAY, we ride round the head
of the extensive plain; and lunch at Dan, near one of the
chief sources of the J ordan. Afterwards travel through
what might have been an ancient park to the second source
of the J ordan, at BANIAS, the ancient Caesarea Philippi.








