62 TOURIST PROGRAMMES

______ Friday, the TWENTIETH DAY, we travel over the spurs

- of Mount Hermon, rising to an elevation of more than
5000 feet, and traversing very hard and stony ways to KEFR
HAUAR, said to be one of the burial-places of the "mighty
hunter," Nimrod. There is good camping ground near a
_ _______ small village of rather disagreeable people; at least, they got
up a great quarrel last year, on the occasion of our visit;
to their locality.

__ ,------Saturday, the TWENTY-FIRST DAY, brings us to DAMASCUS, where there is enough to engage attention for a couple
.__..__. of days.

Sunday, the TWENTY-SECOND DAY, may be spent in
Christian worship, as there are two Mission Stations in the
eity-one appropriated to the service of the Church of
England, and the other conducted by American and English
Presbyterians. There is also a very interesting school, a
branch of the great institution formed at Beyrout by the
late Mrs. Thompson.

Mwulay, the TWENTY-THIRD DAY, may be very fully
occupied in perambulating the city, examining its famed
Bazaars, promenading the "street called Straight," and
searching out objects of ancient interest.

Tuesday, the TWENTY-FOURTH DAY, it will be necessary to
leave Damascus if we intend to reach Beyrout by Saturday
night, which is very desirable. Leaving to the Dragoman
the selection of the two next camping places under the range
of the Anti-Lebanon, we spend three moderate days in
travelling to BAALBEC, where we arrive on Thursday, the
TWENTY-SIXTH DAY, having passed through mountain
scenery of great magnificence. The monumental ruins of
Baalbee are beyond description, and cannot fail to excite the
wonder and admiration of every visitor. A Palestine Tour
is not complete without this great Lebanon. and Anti.
Lebanon Supplement, and we have never left Baalbec out of
our Programmes. We encamp there amidst the ruins of
temples and monuments, calculated to fill the mind with the
deepest emotion.

Friday, the TWENTY-SEVENTH DAY, we have a charming
ride down the great plain of the Lebanon, and ere we




