a, TOURIST PROGRAMMES

recent discoveries of Mr. Ward, of the British Museum, who
has spent ten years there in digging for hidden treasures,
_7=_-u--, and whose labours and perseverance have been crowned by
discovering the site of the Temple of "Diana of the
Ephesians." We sail again on Saturday evening, pass
through the Dardanelles on Sunday morning, enter the sea
of Marmora in the afternoon and reach the Golden Horn
early on Monday morning. We land at the City of the
Sultan, stay there till Saturday morning, and then embark
"_ for Athens. A change of Steamers takes place at Syre for
the Piraeus, where we arrive early on Monday morning, and
stay at Athens until Saturday, when we again embark for
Syra, change Steamers there again, and go on to complete
our voyage at Brindisi or Trieste.

ADDITIONS TO THE PALESTINE TOUR

May be made by beginning at Beyrout, taking the coast
of Tyre and Sidon to Acre and Carmel; from thence, going
by the coast of Sharon, past ancient Caesarea to J affa, and
on to Gaza and other places in the Land of the Philistines,
33%": and going round a wider course to Hebron. This will add
more than a week to the Tour; and the remaining additional time to complete forty-two days can be well filled
up at other points. We offer that as our outline of a less
hurried trip through Palestine; and the additional expense
"___, - can be regulated by the numbers of the Tourists. The
extra fourteen days will cost about £20 each traveller,
more or less, according to the number of the party.

I
e
I
l

AN ABRIDGED PALESTINE TOUR

May be made by entering at Jaffa, and terminating at
Caifa, foot of Mount Carmel, taking in all that has been
marked out in the daily arrangement as far as Nazareth
and the Sea of Galilee, and thus completing a kind of half
Tour in fifteen days, for which there would be a reduction
of an equitable amount, in accordance with the provision
made by the Dragoman.

We should be very glad to arrange for a party to start
from Beyrout at the time the other party starts from J aifa
in the first week of March, for a Tour of forty-two days in








