FOR THE EAST. 65

Palestine and the Lebanon, terminating at Beyrout a fortnight later than the party for a month. In this way the
views of these may be met who think a month too little,
and the course indicated above too hurried. But such
extension must necessarily cost about £20, in addition to
the Fares quoted above. An abridgment in the centre of
_ the Tour could not be so conveniently made, as the Dragoman must necessarily take horses, baggage mules, and
tent equipments forward to Damascus; and for this reason
the reduction could not be in equal proportion to the
general cost of the Palestine Tour.

For all special arrangements special terms must be considered when proposals are submitted.

DEPOSITS OF TEN PER CENT.

1

For any of the Tours, or Divisions of Tours, may now be
paid, either in England or America' and if anything arises
to render it impracticable for any to make the Tours after
payment of Deposits, the same may be withdrawn, less ten
get cent. on the amounts deposited, not later than fifteen
aye before the time fixed for departure.

These arrangements and intimations are concluded with

the usual

CAUTIONARY PROVISO.

We have arranged our Fares on a broad and liberal
margin; but there may arise in Tours of 30 to over 80
days, and extending to 6,000 or 7,000 miles, many unavoidable causes of detention or breaches of arrangement, and
it is against such incidents, altogether beyond human
control, that we have to be on our guard. Quarantine is a
frightful thing when once established in Eastern ports, and
by that all our plans might be disarranged, and additional
expenses be added to loss of time. Hitherto we have been
singularly fortunate at J affa, always being able to land and
re-embark without difficulty; but our Dragomans were, in
February, 1871, driven from J affa to Port Said with almost
a ship-load of camp equipments and servants, incurring a
loss of over £50, which they had to sustain. Passengers
must not expect always to escape such losses; and, were

E






