68 TOURIST PROGRAMMES

plans now complete a circle of more than 26,000 miles,
with a few (le'tours extending to two or three thousands
more, and from any point of that circle Tourists can be
booked and taken up, and may return to the same point,
with all fares and chief expenses paid at starting. Thus, from
London, New York, and Chicago, passengers are taken up,
and will be sent back to the same points, or may break off
at any intermediate point of the compass. Should any in
California, in Japan, in China, in India, or in Egypt, wish
to join this circum-navigating expedition, they can do so,
and if any in New Zealand or Australia wish to fall in with
the arrangements, they can be provided for, and can meet
Mr. Cook and his party in India or Egypt.

The main object of these Supplementary Programmes is
to show the best times for travelling from London, or any
place on the continent of Europe, for Spring Tours to the
Nile, Palestine, & c.; but it may not be uninteresting to

.prefaee the times of arrival, and the disposal of the season

in Egypt, the Holy Land, & e., by quoting the dates of Mr.
Cook's visits to more Eastern climes and countries.

Leaving SAN FRANCISCO, the last point of land in a
westerly course, on the let of November, by the Mail
Steamer of the Pacific Line, the party expect to land at
YOKOHAMA, the first port of the "Land of the Morning
Sun," on or about the 23rd of the month. About twelve
days are allotted to JAPAN, and the navigation of the Island
Sea of Japan, and on the 6th of December they expect to
sail from SHANGHAI, in a Steamer of the Peninsular and
Oriental Company, for HONG KONG, arriving there on' the
10th, and on the 12th resuming the course for INDIA, due
at SINGAPORE on the 18th; at PENANG on the 21st; at
GALLE on the 26th, and at CALCUTTA about the 29th of
December. From Calcutta it is intended to travel by
Railway to BOMBAY, taking in the circuit and (Mom
BENARES, AGRA, CAWNPORE, LUCKNOW, DELHI, and other
places of intense interest, to which from fourteen to seventeen days may be appropriated. If practicable, Mr. COOK
will avail himself of an opportunity of visiting the province
of ORISSA, to shake hands with old friends at the mission
stations of POOREE, CUTTUCK, 650., and to see the famed
Temple or Temples of J uggernaut. Leaving BOMBAY on the




