146 Appendix.

of patients who have hitherto been prevented from coming.
Out of 45 cases that I have seen with unmistakable phthisis,
69 per cent. improved, 20 per cent. remained stationary, and
only 11 per cent. grew worse (including three deaths in
Egypt).

My figures are, therefore, confirmatory of the results
previously obtained by Dr. Williams. The three deaths
which occurred in Egypt were cases in the last stage of
phthisis, which died soon after arrival, and of course ought
not to have been sent abroad. I can only repeat-what
every one knows already-that threatened cases of phthisis,
with or without a bad family history, can apparently be
prevented from developing in a pure, dry, warm climate;
that incipient cases can be improved and perhaps cured; that
chronic cases can remain stationary, so that their lives are
definitely prolonged; but that advanced cases with disease
in both lungs and a temperature every night above the
normal cannot be cured by a change of climate, though
their disease may, under fortunate circumstances, be arrested,
and their days consequently may be enlivened and prolonged.

Perhaps the most satisfactory case to send abroad is the
overgrown boy or girl with winter cough, insufficient expansion of chest, and general lassitude, Such patients require
little or no medical treatment, gain weight and breadth of
body and mind, and return to their work at home with
healthy vigour. Next, if any cases of phthisis are to be
sent abroad, they must be either those which, though
anatomically advanced, are chronic or quiescent, or those in
the earliest possible stage.

Now, in the case of these latter, the patients and their
friends are least likely to think of the scheme, or even to
suspect the disease. It therefore rests with the medical
attendant, where he thinks fit, to order for his patient a
continuance for some months of an equable warm climate,
such as is provided by a summer in England, a winter in
Egypt, and a second summer in England. When a patient






