Appendix. 147

in whom phthisis is suspected goes or is taken by his relatives
to a doctor to have his chest examined, it may generally be
prophesied either that there is no ground for uneasiness, or
that the disease has already made distinct progress. Incipient
cases which gain weight and improve in other respects
during a winter abroad, often need to be reminded that the
measure should be repeated a second time.

Popular young patients must often be banished from Cairo
during December and January, to desert life at the Pyramids,
or at Luxor, to protect them from themselves and their
acquaintance, and the snares of evening engagements.

Chronic cases of undoubted phthisis do very well in Egypt,
for they improve in general health, digestion, and appetite,
and can often take cod-liver oil, which was previously impossible. They are encouraged by finding that they gain a
little weight, and become rid of troublesome cough and
expeetoration. This last symptom is an important one in
Egypt, and one of the first signs of the patient's improvement.

An ordinary phthisical individual complains, when he first
reaches Cairo, of cough and expectoration, and the stethoscope
reveals a multitude of large and small moist sounds. When
he is seen again a fortnight later, these sounds have partly
disappeared, he still coughs, but is surprised and sometimes
alarmed to notice that the expeetoration has suddenly
diminished. After another week or two, he reports that he
only expectorates the first thing in the morning; he seldom
coughs during the day, and the stethoscope again confirms
the drying-up process which is going on in the lung, which
seems to be the direct result of dry air inhaled. This is not
so wonderful when we remember that the average winter
humidity of the Cairo air is under sixty-six per cent. (Table
L), while that of London is above ninety per cent. It would
be interesting to know whether the very dry air is inimical
to the life and development of the tubercle bacillus. Two
cases in which bacilli were seen in London and on arrival
in Cairo, and could not he found before leaving Cairo and






