148 Appendix.

upon returning to London, are possibly confirmatory of this
suspicion.

Advanced cases of phthisis will often be much happier
leading an indoor life in their own unsuitable climate than
an occasional outdoor life in a more favourable one. This is
especially the case if the patient has very limited means.
He gains sunlight and sunheat during the day, and runs a
chance of his disease being arrested; but against this he
must balance draughts and irksome travelling, a paucity of
fireplaces, food and habits to which he is unsuited, and exile
from his home-comforts and best friends.

I have previously referred to the question as to whether it
is advisable or not to send cases of haemorrhagic phthisis to
Cairo. I have not yet seen any ill result from doing so, and
though I do not wish here to quote medical cases, I will give
the results of the only two patients I have met, with alarming history of recent haemoptysis. The first case, a friend,
but not a patient of mine, aged 27, had copious haemoptysis,
recurring several times, followed by cough, purulent sputa,
dyspnea, and loss of weight (171, lbs.). He was sent to Pau,
Nice, Mont Dore, and eventually to Egypt. He was so
weak that he had to be carried ashore at Suez, and he could
not walk for more than ten minutes at a time. After six
weeks in Cairo, he went to Luxor for two months in January,
1888. In March his cough and expectoration had quite
ceased, and he could be out shooting for three hours at a
time. He gained 191 lbs. weight while in Egypt, and spent
the following winter at Cairo and Luxor, without cough,
expectoration, 0r haemoptysis, but still with old physical
signs at the right apex.

The second case was that of a lady, aged 19, whose father,
brother, and sister, had all died of rapid phthisis with
haemoptysis. She herself had had haemoptysis for a year,
with loss of flesh, night sweats, slight cough, and signs of
incipient disease at one apex. After fifteen weeks at Cairo,
she had gained 151135. weight, and there was general improve





