152 Appendix.

could run a few steps, walk downstairs quickly and without
ungainly gait, and she had very little pain, and much less
cracking in the knee-joints. The improvement was chiefly
due to sunshine and the dry climate, and when the air of
Cairo became hot and dry in April she improved all the
more. The following August she could play golf in Scotland
for two hours at a time, and had had no return of stiffness
in the joints, though the previous summer she had been
unable to walk on the links even with the aid of a stick.
These brief notes of two cases are sufficient to show that
Egypt is worth a trial to sufferers from rheumatoid arthritis.

I have seen great improvement and eventual cure in some
severe cases of G. rheumatism, the hot dry climate being
the only relieving agent. One patient arrived wholly unable
to walk, with one lower extremity completely stiff, after
severe arthritis keeping him fourteen weeks in bed. In
two months and a half he could walk up and downstairs,
but could not yet kneel; later on he almost recovered in
England.

Gout, again, is an unknown disease among the people of
Egypt, and all chronic cases are liable to be improved them,
and the chances of an acute attack are lessened.

Heart disease and kidney disease patients are often sent
to Egypt, the former, because it is a country where active
exercise is not required, and the individual can keep himself
warm without any trouble; the latter, because the skin will
relieve the kidneys of much otherwise necessary work.

Anemia, with the train of symptoms with which all
doctors are so familiar in young girls, is the prominent
sign of a disorder which is tolerably certain to improve
in Cairo. There is a healthy outdoor life, with plenty of
light and warmth, and a sufficiency of daily interest. The
patient soon becomes able to eat and digest, and to take
preparations of iron which had hitherto seemed impossible.
This has been a result quickly arrived at in most cases.

Hepatic discus-ea--As the climate of Cairo in winter is






