of Sell 1. ABYDOS. J. Route. 55

of the adjoining village,'Arihat ssl-Mufti, Le. mam of the buried".
Possibly the last portion of the name may refer to Osiris, whose grave
here attracted so many pilgrims, and hindfdn (mast may be a translation
of the old name of the temple-quarter of Abydos, In spite of the most
lavish expenditure of time, money, and labour, the excavators failed to
find. either the spring mentioned by Stratus "the tomb of Osiris, and yet
the latter must lie close to the part of the ruins called Kora tie-Sultan,
near the holy hill of Abydos so often mentioned in the inscriptions.
Mariette derives the name Mennonites; from that of its founder Seti
Ra-man-ma or Men-ma-ra. This, however, is undoubtedly wran t and

Lo sins was the first to show that the Egyptian word Henna" or
W
was, applied to any large monument or memorial, whether architec
tural or plastic, led the Greeks to describe every palatial structure of
the ancient Egyptians as a disparities (liemnonion) or palace of Essence.
Perhaps they first heard the name Henna given to the colossal figures of
Amenhotep III. at Thebes (p. 153) and were attracted by its resemblance
in sound to the name of the son of Eon who fell before Troy; hence
they called the figures, afterwards so celebrated, statues of Memnon, and
saw Memnonia, or palaces of the same here, in some of the large memorial
buildings described as Manon. The fact that the Hellenes did not apply
this name to all the great buildings of Egypt, but only to some of the
temples of W. Thebes and to the sanctuary of Seti at Abydos, may be
explained by the supposition that in the time of the Pharaohs these buildings monopolised the epithet of Henna, net as the fortress of the Conn
oneror in London is known as the Tower par excellence among the
numerous towers of that city. The temple of'ati beams known as the
Memnonium or Palace of Monsoon in the Alexandrina period, and a
natural consequence was the conversion of the name Able into the similarly sounding Abortion or Abydus, the name of a town of Twas on the
Hellespont, not far from the burial- place of Memnon. By degrees the
Asiatic here, see of Tithonus and m and ally of Prism (corn. p. 154),
was converted into an Ethiopian, and the lively imagination of t e Greeks
transferred the Asiatic legends to Egypt and adapted them to Egyptian
conditions. Thus they related that Tithonus sent an Ethiopian army to aid
his son against Troy. These soldiers, however, heard of the death of
Memnon at Ahydos in Upper Egypt and retraced their stops, after hanging their garlands on the comics in the holy grove at the Memnonium.
Birds were fabled to have sprang from the ashes of Morocco, and reappeared on certain days every year, removed all impurities from his grave,
dipped their wings in the Aesopos, Which thaws mm tho Propontie m Cymua, and sprinkled the grave with the water. At a later date these birds
were said to come from Ethiopia. Finally it was asserted that the Egyptian Abydos had been founded by columns from its Asiatic namesake.

The Memnonium of Abydos is not an ordinary divine or religious
temple like those of Dendereh, Kernek, and Edfu, but is rather one
of the series of sepnlchrel sanctuaries of which mention is made at
p. 170 of Baedeker'e Lower Egypt. The numerous representations
and inscriptions that cover its walls are mostly of a very general
nature. They tell us, however, that the building they adorn was
primarily intended for funereal purposes. As already mentioned,
the bodies of numerous princes and grandees were brought here to
participate in the blessings that were supposed to emanate from the
sacred tomb of Osiris. The Pharaohs nowhere ofiered sacrifices to
the mouse of their forefathers more gladly than at Abydos, and
prayers were put up here to the Osiris-hinge of the a (:3 h'e










