56 Route 4. names. Mcmnonium

of the Pharaohs just as at the neighbouring Ptolemais divine honours
were paid to the deceased princes of Macedonian origin. - It was
natural enough that in a sanctuary devoted to purposes of this kind
no boisterous festivals or ceremonies should take place, and we are
not surprised to learn that neither singer nor flute-player nor lute »
player was allowed within its walls.

The great building of Abydos, at first sight, impresses neither
by its size nor by its beauty. The walk consist of fine-grained
limestone, while a harder material (sandstone) has been selected for
the columns, architraves, door-posts, and other burden-bearing
parts. The foundations are nowhere more than 41/2 ft. thick, and
the platforms on which the columns rest are equally shallow.
Numerous blocks have become disjointed, owing, as Mariette has
shown, to the giving way of the dove-tails of sycamore wood
with which they were fastened. The inscriptions of Seti and the
earlier ones of his son and successor show great purity of style, but
this quality disappears in the later tents of the latter. It has been
established that a sanctuary of some importance stood at Abydos
even in the days of the ancient empire, and indeed we hear of its
restoration in that remote epoch. Our witness is a stale, now in
the Louvre, on which Ameniscneb, a priest and architect, who lived
in the reign of Usertesen 1. (12th Dye), records the fact that be
renewed the colouring and inscriptions in the temple of Abydos
from top to bottom. This probably means the building of which
some fragments, belonging to the 12th Dynasty, are seen to the N.
of the Memnonium (see p. 87). Under the Hyksos the ancient
sanctuary was entirely neglected, and the only record here of the
18th Dynasty, which was almost wholly absorbed by its wars and
foundations in Thebes, is an inscription of Tutmes HI. Seti L,
however, of the 19th Dynasty, built an entirely new temple, and
his son Ramses H. completed the adornment that his father left
unfinished. The ground-plan of the structure is unusual, and differs
materially from that of other great Egyptian temples. Among the
features, however, which it has in common with these are the
pylons, a first and second fore-court, hypostyle halls, and a sane-v
teary. The last, however, is much more richly articulated than
usual. The wing to the S. (to the left on entering) forme an new
curate right angle with the main edifice. The whole structure is in
the shape of a masonic square.

We enter the temple from the RE. The first pylon and the
walls enclosing Court A are in ruins. Coons: B, which open: to the
S. on the temple proper, is in better preservation. The sons and
daughters of Ramses H. were represented on the right and left walls,
but the figures and inscriptions have been almost effaced. In spite
of the fact that all the inscriptions and representations here refer to
Ramsas IL, it has been proved through the discovery by Mariette
of a dove-tail (see above) bearing the name of l., that the






