of Soft I. ABYDOS. d, Route. 57

latter founded this N. part of the temple and left merely the decoration of it to his son. - The facade of the temple is of very
unusual form. A row of 12 limestone columns stand a short distance in advance of the temple wall, forming with it a kind of
pronaos. In the time of Seti seven doom, corresponding to the seven
chambers of the sanctuary (see below), pierced the rear-wall, which
was adorned with a cornice of its own, On ceremonial occasions
the processions in honour of the king seem to have entered by the
door to the extreme left; the next served for processions to Ptah,
the third for Harmachis, the fourth for Amman, the fifth for Osiris,
the sixth for Isis, and the seventh for Home. Ramses, however,
walled up six of these doors, leaving the central one alone, the
decoration of which had been begun by Seti, as the main entrance
to the temple. A small door in the Home gateway, to the extreme
right, is still open. The pillars bear huge figured representations
and a few inscriptions, which refer to Soil 1. as deceased and introduce Ramses H. in the company of Amman-site, Osiris, Horns, and
other gods. The hieroglyphics inform us that Ramses erected this
part of the temple in honour of his father, one phrase, for instance,
reading:'The king of Upper and Lower Egypt, the Lord of the
Barbarians (Nine Nations), to make great the name of his father'.
The entrancewwall behind the pillars confirms this pious filial wish
beyond the shadow of a doubt. In the wall, to the left of the main
entrance, is a large and conspicuous inscription in 95 vertical lines,
which, after the lists of kings, must he called the most important
in Abydos. It consists of two parts. In the first Ramses relates
how, on coming to Abydos, he found his father's work unfinished
and resolved to carry it to a conclusion. The grandee? » rejoiced at
this resolution, and workmen and artists of every kind were summoned to aid in the task. In the second part Pharaoh recalls to his
consciousness all the honours he had paid and the gifts he had
presented to his father. The gods show him favour on account of
his piece acts and advance, one by one, to bestow upon him the
richest gifts of heaven: strength, fearlessness, victory, immortality,
etc. A picture accompanying the inscription represents Ramses,
with a crown on his head, ofiering sacrifices to the goddess Ma and
to a triad consisting of Osiris, Isis. and his father Seti L, who takes
the place of Horus. Recently deceased, Seti'appears as the youthful
god, the victorious opponent of the might of Death, who will soon
become Osiris, after subduing all his enemies beneath his feet. On
one of the pillars, indeed, Seti is already described as the'royal
Osiris'. The inscription dates from the first year of the single
rule of Ramses and from the time of his first journey to Thebes,
when he erected statues of his father in the city of Ammon
and in Memphis At Abydos he first undertook the restoration of
his father's monumental structures in the necropolis, on the spot
specially sacred to Osiris Unnefer. After mentioning other regtora







