58 4. Route ABYDOS. Memnonium

tions, the inscription continues as follows, with special reference to
this temple:'For lo, while the temple of Ra-ma-men (to. Seti I.)
was still building both back and front; Seti ascended to heaven,
before his Memnonium (Mennu) was completed. The columns had
not yet been placed upon their bases, the statue lay on the ground
and was not yet finished off, when he (Set!) became acquainted
with the tomb (the'golden room', the principal chamber of Seti's
tomb at Biban el-Mulino, etc. Then said His Majesty to the sea! bearer by his side: Summon the courtiers, the military commanders,
and their fellows, and also the whole multitude of architects and
librarians. When these were conducted before His Majesty, pressing
their noses in the dust and their knees to the earth, they broke out
into rejoicing and smelled the ground (to. prostrated themselves).
They raised their arms, praising His Majesty, and prayed to this
benignant deity, celebrating his perfection'. Then follow emphatic
expressions of worship, addressed to the king.'Then spoke His
Majesty unto them and said: I summoned you before me on account
of a plan that has entered my mind. I have seen the buildings of
the necropolis and the tombs that are at Abydos, and also those
who have to work there. Truly nothing has been restored since the
time of their lord unto the present day. But when a son finds himself on the throne of his father, shall he not renew the monument
(Mennu) of his begetter?... From childhood until now I have
been a prince. He gave me the earth as a gift, and while I was yet
in the egg the great ones of the earth prostrated themselves before
me. o.. I have called my father to a new life in gold (to. as a
statue) in the first year of my exaltation. I have given orders that
his temple be adorned and I have made sure his possession of the
land... I have offered him sacrifices.... And new, when his
building stood in my power, I watched over all the labours connected
with it.... I enlarged and renewed his palatial structure I did
not neglect his foundation, as wicked children do, who do not
respect their father... I built anew the walls of the temple of
my begetter. I presented before him the man whom I had selected
to superintend the works... I erected pylons in front of it, I have
covered his house with clothing (sculptures), l have adorned its
columns and provided stones for the foundations. A. finished work
was the monument, doubly as glorious as at first. It is (named) after
my name and after the name of my father, for, as the son, so is also
the father'. In the following sentences Ramses is praised as a model
son and the highest gifts of the gods are assured to him.'Since the
sun-god its there has never been a son who has accomplished what
thou hast.... Thou, thou workest, thou renewest one monument
to the gods after another, according to the command of thy father
Ra'. The whole world obeys him and brings him offerings. After
the grandees have finished their oration, he once more orders the
officials, masters, artists, labourers, and all otherpmngagefiin the



