of em I. ABYDOS. d, Route. 59

building operations to construct the sanctuary of his father in the
neeropolis and to how out his statue. Sacrifices and festivals are
richly provided for. The rest of the inscription assumes more and
more the character of a hymn, like those mentioned at p. 258 and
elsewhere.

The above will suffice to show the filial piety, with which Ramses,
at least in the earlier part of his reign, strove to complete and restore the work of his father. But the remains of the building constructed by him near the Temple of Soil at Abydos (p. 87) prove
that he also founded a large Memnonium for himself in the district
sanctified by the tomb of Osiris.

INTERIOR or THE TEMPLE.
l, The Hypostyle Halls and the Sevenfold Sanctuary.

From the Pronaos, containing the above inscription, two doors
only now lead into the interior of the temple. the main entrance
in the middle and a narrow door to the extreme right. The First
Hypostyle Room (PI, 0), a long but narrow apartment, makes
a solemn and imposing impression. The roof, part of which has
fallen in, is supported by 24 columns, arranged in two rows and in
groups of four. The slender shafts are surmounted by capitals in
the form of papyrus buds. Seti i. did not complete the plastic decoration of the room. Ramses began new sculptures instead of those
begun by his father, apparently forgetting the great filial piety he
arrogates to himself in the above-quoted inscription (p. NO,,
Whether it was that the zeal of the son abated along with his grief
for his father, or that the priestly sculptors thought it better to celebrate a living prince rather than a dead one, the fact remains that
it is Ramses alone who is here depicted and the temple itself is
simply called the temple of Abydos, not, as in the earlier inscriptions, that of Ra-ma-men (La Sui } The sculptures preserved here
are of mediocre workmanship, and the inscriptions and representations, almost wholly dealing with Ramses and his reception of
gifts from the different gods, are generally uninteresting even for
the scholar. On the right wall, mat the second chamber, is a series
of gods, consisting of Re, Sins (the giver of all delight) and his
sister Tefnut (giver of health), Se!) (giver of life and strength),
the great god Apham (Anubis), and Nut, who imparts the fulness of
salvation. - The six lists of the names of Egypt, on the lower part
of the walls, are also interesting As elsewhere, the districts are
represented as bearded male figures with the emblem of the Home
(a piece of surveyed ground, 3"?? 3'35 and a standard hearing the
symbol of the special district. As the lists here have no annotations, they are of less value than those at Denderah and elsewhere
They indicate that it was customary for all the districts of the land
to pay their vows and bring gifts to the gods ofaspecralsanctuary









