50 Route f, ABYDOS. Memnonium

The Second Hypostyle Room (Pl. D) resembles the first, but is
higher, deeper, and in all respects of more importance. Seti L began it and his artists executed both the architectural details and
the plastic adornment with the carefulness and purity of style that
marks all their work. The son has here left unchanged the name
of the father, which occurs at every point. Three rows of twelve
columns each support the architrave, on which rest the roofing
slabs, and are arranged in six groups, each of six columns. Bow
tween the groups access is afforded to the vaulted chambers in the
wall facing us as we enter. The first two of the three rows of col--urns have papyrus-bud capitals. Beyond the second row the floor of
the temple is considerably raised, forming a platform from which
the vaulted chambers are entered. Upon this platform stands the
third row of columns, the cylindrical shafts of which are entirely
destitute of capitals, but bear huge blocks of stone forming an abacus for the support of the architrave. This peculiarity is simply explained by the fact that the columns in the third row are shorter
than the others, owing to their raised platform, so that the architect,
by omitting the capital, brings the abacus of all on the same level
and avoids the unpleasant effect which different elevations of the
architrave would make on the eye. When processions of worshippers
filed in and out, performing pious ceremonies, this hall must have
presented a very imposing spectacle. Inscriptions below the openings leading from the first hall to the second inform us they were
formerly filled with doors of bronze (seam). The inscriptions and
representations on the walls and columns repeat themselves wearisomely and are of little general interest. Here we see the king receiving from the gods such attributes of the royal dignity as the
crooked sword or the scourge and crook (symbols, perhaps, of the
royal duties of incentive on the one side and restraint on the other);
there we behold him offering burnt-offerings to a single god, a
triad, or a group of gods. If the king is receiving gifts, he is
generally represented on his knees; when he sacrifices, he leans
slightly forward, holding the burnt-offering in the left hand and
libations in the right. Sometimes he is seated, receiving the blessings of the gods; he appears thus in the fine picture on the N. Wall
of the second room, with Isis, Amenti, and Nephthys in front, and
the goddess Ma and Renpet behind. His profile is evidently a faithful likeness and is everywhere portrayed with great artistic skill.
The unusual handsomeness of this king is still recognisable in his
mummy at Gizeh. The sacrificial implements should also be noted.
Camera like that in his hand have been found, but in bronze, while
his were doubtless of gold. They are in the form of an arm, the
hand holding a small vessel from which the smoke of the incense
arises. The handle shows the carefully executed sparrow hawk's
head of Horus. The libatiou vessel was in the form of a golden low
tus flower, with small vases rising above the open corolla, from which






