of Scti I. ABYDOS. J. Route. 61

essences were poured out in honour of the god. The framework of
each scene, the mouldings separating the lines of hieroglyphics,
and the hieroglyphic symbols themselves are all executed with inimitable care. The side-walls of this hall, to the right and left, and
the walls near the gates leading to the chapels, beer symbolic re"
presentations, like those in the first hall, of the unrest of Upper
and Lower Egypt.

At a considerable interval, beyond the third row of columns in
the second hall, and on the same level with them, is a series of
SEVEN VAULTED CHAMBERS or Onarnns, forming the Sanctuary of
the Memnonium. The metal doors with which they were once closed
have long since disappeared. In the piers separating the doors are
rectangular niches, which probably contained images either of the
deities to whom the chapels were dedicated or of King Seti. Each
chapel is vaulted and the vaults are profusely and beautifully decorated with stars and the name Ra-ma-men (praenomen of Seti L),
Dedicatory Inscriptions on three of the vaults prove that Osiris must
be regarded as the chief divinity of the temple. It must be noted
that the roofs of these chapels are not vaulted in the strict archintectural signification of that word; they consist rather of blocks of
stone out in a round fashion and crowned by a key-stone which is
hollowed out in the interior. The chapels were dedicated (beginning from the left) to the king, Ptah, Harmachis, Amman, Osiris,
Isis, and Horns. All the chief figures in the Osiris cycle of gods are
represented here with the exception of Seth, the antagonist of Osiris,
and his wife Nephthys. With them is associated the king who has
become Osiris (see p. 57). Math, who becomes Sokaersiris when
regarded in his relations to life beyond the grave, is of course represented. In the place of honour in the midst of the seven is Ammon,'who is the only one and whose years flourish among the gods',
who is'loftier in his ideas then any other god','to whose feet the
gods crawl, recognising their lord and master', who is'lord of
eternity and creator of the unending', of whom indeed the other
gods may be regarded as attributes. To the right and left of Ammon are two groups of three. To the right are Osiris, Isis, and How
rue; to the left are Ptah the primeval, the lord of the past; Harmachis, who announces the new day rising in the East, who struggles for the victory of life over death, and assures the future
triumph of good over evil, and King Seti, the temporal incarnation
of divine power in the present, in the sphere of human activity.
To these gods, conceived as filling these chapels with their presence, were brought the mummies, to be sanctified for their eternal
home. The way to the different chapels was indicated on the very
threshold of the temple, where Seti L, as we have seen, construct (1
seven doors in the rear-wall of the pronaos. Most of these, however, were closed by Ramses, probably to intensify and preserve the
secret and mysterious character of the temple. But th paths to the










