6? Route d, ABYDOS.

diderent chapels are still easily distinguishable, partly from the
plan of the building, partly by the representations and inscriptions;
for from each of the seven doors a processional approach led through
the two hypostyle halls straight to the entrance of the corresponding chapel; while the representations on the columns flanking each
approach refer only to the deity to whom the chapel at the end of it
was dedicated. In the vaulted chapels, amid the fumes of incense and the murmuring of muffled singing, waited the ministering priests of the sanctuary, pouring out libations and uttering
benedictions as the processions wound along the aisles, either
bearing a mummy to be sanctified or consisting of a group of privileged laymen bringing offerings to the Osiris gods for the soul's
welfare of the deceased.--The dedication are inscribed on the
door-posts in the traditional forms and with little variation. Similar
vaults occur at Benihasan and Dér el-Bahri, and also in the lids of
the sarcophagi in the museum at Gireh. In each case the menuments to which they belong serve funerary purposes; the shape of
the vault is, however, intended to represent the vault of heaven,
which the Osiris-soul has to traverse, and they are usually decorated
with stars. An inscription preserved on one of the vaults of the
sanctuary informs us that the Pharaoh erected this structure for his
father Osiris in the interior of the temple of Ra-ma-men and fitted
up the chapel to resemble the heaven of the ninefold deities, imi
tating its constellations, etc.

The internal fitting up and appearance of the chapels very little, As the
middle place had to be assigned to Amman, the chief of the gods, it was
necessary to mark the special dignity of Osiris, to whom indeed the tem le
was consecrated, by making his chapel (Pl. d) wider than the others. he
rear-walls of the latter are, in each case, occupied by two niche: with a
lotus-flower between them, from which rises the slander form oi Osiris,
symbolising the blossoming of the soul in a'ha pier sphere". In the back »
wall of the sanctuary of Osiris, however, is a our, leading to attractors
(m. IO which, including the adjoining smaller columned chambers, is as wide
as the whole sanctuary. This was the scene of the mysterious rites celebrated in honour of the Divine-Deceased (Osiris, whose name even the Greek
Herodotus shrank from breathing) by the esoteric 9:385" of the highest class
(see Brewster's Lower- Egypt, p. 124). The inscriptions in the chapels inform
us that the priestly processions 1-, which came from all parts of the kingdom,
made a complete circuit of the chapel, keeping to the right Well on entering
and returning to We duo: Mung the door along the left wall. Thirty-six rites or ceremonies
had to he perfumed during this circuit. First came a recitation to prove the
worthiness of the worshipper to approach the holy place and the image of
the god. Then the veil was lifted. The worshipper was next allowed to
witness the investiture of the god by the priests with his mum, garments,
ornaments, and the attributes of his divine ower. Not before this was
accomplished did the pilgrim prostrate himself in adoration, brin, libations, and. burnt-offerings. The hymns to be song at these
ceremonies are all prescribed, and the pictorial representations show how
the gods were to be clothed and in what attitudes they were to he worshipped. Possibly all these rites were performed only by the priests of



0 t In the inscriptions the expression invariably used for the processions
as the King, who is regarded as the embodiment and representative of all
his subjects.





