of Soil 1. names. 4. Route. 63

the temple. In any case the chapels are too small to have admitted more
than the heads of the deputations from other parts of Egypt. Great weight
is laid upon the sacred number seven, as shown in the number of the
shame themselves and in the seven heads of sparrow~hawks represented
in each. That the king should appear as the seventh object of worship
along with six gods is undoubtedly unusual; but it may be explained by
the fact that Seti built the seventh chapel, not for the adoration of himself while alive, but for a future period when he hoped to he merged in
Osiris. Neither Seti nor his son could avoid the interment of their mum"
miss near the royal residence of Thebes; but it may be assumed that their
earthly remains received consecration at Abydos, and that the Memnonium
of Soil is to be regarded as a cenotaph, in which the Name of Pharaoh,
as a symbol of the king himself, was to be honoured and preserved. The
Pharaohs of the early em ire possessed similar monuments here. These,
however, fell into decay uring the Hyksos period; and Sen Was enabled
to do what unfavourable times had hindered his predecessors from doing
--is. to build a new and costly Memnonium, in which a place was reserved, near the tomb of Osiris, for the Names of his royal ancestors. In
the arches above the rear-wan of the chapel: am several
representations of the king offering his Name, symbolism, by the cartouche
or ring Q Which surrounded royal names. In this way ehydos
came to be the most important place for the preservation of lieu of kings.
The columned aisle leading to Seth; Chapel (Pl. a) contains inscriptions
and representations relating to the king alone and showing us his relation »
ship to the gods in its proper light. On the walled-up door to the first
hall we see Thoth, the Reason or Intelligence, the god of the sciences and
of historical records, offering a sacrifice in front of an image of the king
(the latter unfortunately much damaged). The inscription reads'1, Thoth,
the dweller in Abydos, some to thee on account of thy greatness and my
glory For the sake of thy sanctity as king, for the sake of thy might
and thy constancy on earth, and to make than great', etc .--On the columns of the first hall the king is represented as sacrificing and receiving
the attributes of the kingdom from Thoth, Anubis A ham, Home the son
of Isis, and Hsnmutef, the high priest of Abydos. The paintings on the
' wall of the same hall show no the king as a boy, hal in the arms of
Isis and tackled at the divine breasts of the Hathors. They admit him
to the place of Horus, that be may increase in strength and ascend the
throne of Osiris as a man. Rather, the queen-deity of Heliopolis in shy-dos, calls herself the mother of his beauty, and says to him:'Thou hast
been nourished by my milk, than who art adorned with the crown of Up er
Egpt". The Hathor of Denderah calls herself his nurse, who raised or
arms to embrace his beauty. On the left side of the door farthest to the
left, also leading to the second hall, we see the king, wearing a helmet,
while Thoth pours over his head the signs of life and dominion. To the
right the king appears with the richly decorated royal crown, holding the
sceptre and scourge in his hands. The priest Henmutef burns incense hetero him, and me me bring him gifts, of which he is the producer. The
king has now passed from the boy Home to the man Osiris; Henmutef
says:'I burn incense to thee and to thy name, 0 Osiris, King Ita-ma-men'.
The words put in the month of the Nile are:'I bring to thee in my arms
the superfluity as an od'ering, 0 King, lord of both worlds E' On the sides
of the columns facing the aisle leading to the royal chapel are represented
Anubis'Aphem hurling to the king the attributes of constancy and might;
Thumb, either pouring the water of life and dominion over the king, or
addreSSing him in set speech, with a roll in his left hand; Henmutef exhurting him, and reaching him the sign of approval

, thus reminding us of the passage in Diodorus which tells us that
it was the duty of the priests to praise and warn tho age. The king
has instituted festivals in honour of Horns, and Home in return throws
him the symbol of life. Isis, holding in her hand the lotus-et), entwined
by the Urmnnserpsnt, also invests him with life, which have as elsewhere included life beyond the grave, which the Egyptians termed the
true life. On the 3. wall of the second hall Soil is rep' d 8 }" 93














