64 Route d, ABYDOS. Memnonium

on the throne or Game In front of him menus Home,'the avenger of
his father", investing him with immortality, while behind is the jacks ] headed Apheru (Anubis), ready to protect him from danger. Above the
dedicatory inscription Thoth, the god of divine eloquence, promises Osiris
Ra-ma-men that the chle of the Nine Gods will entitle him with everlasting life. In the chapel itself the representations are very numerous.
The king, in one, appears as a sphinx, resting on a base bearing the
names of six nations that he has conquered. A somewhat singular scene
represents standard--bearers with me ensign of the assigns of the homes, personifying
the emblems of life, constancy, and power in threefold repetition; those,
like the inscriptions between the standard-poles, teach us that Beti wee
endued with courage, length of days, uninterrupted safety and strength,
victory, abundance, and the kingdom of Egypt for life. It would be wearisome to enumerate the multitude of other inscriptions of a similar tenour.
Among the 22 representations in the king's chapel, many of which are in
a very dilapidated condition, the most noteworthy is one in which the
king appears on the throne of Osiris, embraced by the goddesses Nekheb
(Eileithyia) and Beta. Thoth and Horns draw tighter the stems of the
plants symbolising Upper and Lower Egypt, which unfold the sign of union

sam. Satchh, the goddess of history, behind Thoth, inscribes the name

of the king. In another scene Seti It seated on a throne supported by
three figures in the form of Horus an three in the form of Anubis. Un,
der a canopy edema with Urmuseerpents appears the state barge of the
king, robably a representation or the precious metals and may be seen in the museum at Gizeh
(see Baedeker's Lower Egypt) and elsewhere. Below are canopi (Vol, T, p. 301),
in front sacrificial offerings, and behind Thoth and aumutei - We
observe that everything here rare" to the king, whose name recurs in wearisome iteration, and who here receives back again as Osiris the offerings
he had himself made, during his mortal life, to Osiris and thus to his
future self, the Osirisepotheosis of his soul.

A door in the Osiris Chapel (m. s? the third from the right wall, leads
to the rear-structure (Pl. E) mentioned at p. 62. Though the structure is
in a very ruinous state, its ground-plan can easily be made out. A colonmsde, the roof of which, once supported by 10 columns, has fallen to the
ground, stood in direct connection with the Osiris chapel. It coming "representations, some of which are almost wholly ed'aoed. By the wall, to
the right on entering, lay three small chambers adorned with fine soul ture.
The first of these (m. i) is dedicated to Horus, the second (Pl. k) to siris,
the mini WI. I) to me Behind them lay another room (Pl. h). In the
wall to the left on entering Room E is a door leading to a room (PI, m)
with four columns, which was adjoined by three smaller apartments (Pl. n,
o, p). Though the most sacred mysteries were celebrated in this suite of
rooms, they od'er little that is novel; the implements of the priests were
kept in the side-rooms. Here, no doubt, many a spectacle was prepared
which, when displayed in the Osiris chapel, filled the pious worshippers
with awe and wonder.

SOUTH BUILDING. APARTMENT WITH THE TABLET or THE KINGS.
m'l'his building consists of a series of rooms, all more or less
ruinous and most of them roofless, a court, and some smaller
chambers. The most important, to which a visit should be paid,
even if all the others be omitted, is a long (65 it.) and low Corridor
(PL is), entered from the left side of the second hypostyle hall,
between the second and third row of columns. The flat ceiling is
adorned with a rich network of ornamentation, combining the name



