of Suit 1. ABYDOS. 4. Route. 35

I

of the king, the symbol of the'panegyric tent, and a number

of stars. A dedicatory inscription, dividing the ceiling into two
parts, records that'this Memnonium was erected in the temple of
Abydos to his forefathers and all the cycles of gods of heaven and
earth, by the king, lord of the diadems, who is born again, who
surpasses all in strength and annihilate, the barbarians, the vie-torious Horus, who appears in new glory, bearing away over the
barbarians in all countries, the king of Upper and Lower Egypt,
who achieves noble deeds, the lord of both worlds, Ra-ma-men.
He erected to them these venerated sanctuaries outside the Necropolis, building them of stone and inlaying them with gold, in
an everlasting work outlasting human life, ete,' - By the right
well on entering the corridor from the second hypostyle is the celebrated a*Tablot of Abydos, consisting of three long rows of royal

shields or cartonches 0, before which Sad and his son Ramses H.

stand in adoration. The praying king raises his right hand and holds
a concur in his left hand; the boy-prime, standing in front of him,
still beam the look of youth, hanging over his temples. In his
raised hands he bears written ons. The adjoining inscription reads:
'Recitation of songs of praise by Prince Ramses, son and firstborn of
the king who loves him'. Above the shields is another inscription,
which describes the king's offering as made to Ptah-Sokar-Osiris,
the lord of the sarcophagus in the Memnonium of Abydos and (nab
Met) the royal forefather of Seti. He enumerates his gifts: 1000
loaves of bread, 1000 barrels of beer, 1000 cattle, 1000 gease,
1000 incensenofi'erings, 1000 oilwofierings, 1000 pieces of cloth,
1%": garments, 1000 barrels of wins, 1000 holy otterings The
figure 1000 here, which occurs in almost all sacrificial lists and also
in other formulae, is not, of course, to be taken literally but simply
as equivalent to many. The king, as we see, brings his youthful
son into the hall dedicated to his ancestors, where the earlier rulers
of Egypt, under the symbol of their name, dwell beside the tomb
of Osiris. He teaches the boy to offer rich gifts, such as hereafter
he would wish offered to his own manes. It is beyond doubt that
Seti was still living when this inscription was set up, and yet
he already adds his own name to those of his predecessors; it
occupies the whole of the lowest row (the third from the top) of the
royal table, being repeated 19 times with prefix and affix. The
living Seti provides for the future Osiris and for his worship at the
holy grave....... ... In the first volume of this Handbook (p. 80) it has
been shown that the establishment of the chronology of the Egyptian
kings was rendered possible only by a collation of the lists ofManctho
with the lists of Pharaohs preserved in the monuments. Among
the latter none approaches in importance the royal tablet of the

BAEDEKER 8 Upper Egypt 5







