66 Route d, ABYDOS. Memnonium

Memnonium at Abydos, which contains no fewer than 76 cartouches,
only two of which are slightly injured. The tablet from the temple

of Ramses (p. SO, now in London, contains 16 entire and 2 half

destroyed cartouches, while the list of Sahhhrah, discovered by Mariette, has 39 whole and 3 damaged cartouches.

Mona, La Manes, the first historic king of Egypt, heads
m the list. The names following his are those of the most
w prominent monarchs, at least those whose legitimacy was
unquestionable. The Heraeleopolitans and the Hyksos are

naturally left out, but other rulers, of whom we possess

monuments, have also been apparently deemed unworthy of

inclusion in this important roll of honour The merit of
first observing and publishing this inestimable historical
document belongs to Prof. Diimichen

On the left wall of the corridor we again meet Seti and the
youthful Ramses. The father holds a censor in his left hand, while
the son, adorned with the priestly panther-skin, pours a libation on
the altar in front of him. The titles of the right well re-appear
here. The inscription, which the royal pair faces, contains in system
matic order the names of these objects of worship, with their homes,
whom Seti hue honoured with sacrificial gifts. The sculpture in this
corridor, consisting of alto-reliefs on the fine-grained limestone, is
all executed with the greatest delicacy. in the centre of the right
well a door leads into a narrow Chamber? t), vaulted in the same
manner as the sanctuaries (p. 61), and preceding the stair (Pl. n)
which leads to the hill at the back of the temple. The inscriptions
here are in excellent preservation, being injured only in a few places;
the adjoining figures of Seti and Ramses show the latter arrived at
manhood and the throne. Safekh, the goddess of history,'the great
mistress of books', addresses her darling son Seti. The ceremony of
foundation, which we find more fully represented and described in
the Ptolemaic temples, is also depicted here. The praises of the king
are sung, and his merits are, at the command of Re, to be committed
to writing by the goddess of history. Thoth also congratulates the
king in the emphatic manner usual to such inscriptions, and promises
him an eternal existence and the stability ofhis kingdom for hundreds
of thousands of years. Thoth is named the tongue of Re and lord
of the speech of the prophet of truth. This staircase was completed
while Ramses shared the throne of his father as iso-ruler.

The other rooms of this part of the building are all more or less
in ruins. From the S. and of the kings" gallery we enter a kind of
peristyle Court (PI. G), with seven columns, which perhaps was
never completed. The sculpture: and hieroglyphics are not very
carefully executed and appear'en creur' instead of in high relief.
The most interesting scenes are those on the lower part of the walls,
representing the slaughter of the cattle, gazellea, and antelope:
which Seti had so lavishly vowed (in the adjoining king's gallery)











