of Soil I. ABYDOS. g, Route. 67

to the gods of the temple. Some of the resisting oxen are remarkably
true to nature. Probably the sacrificial animals were actually slain
in this court, a conclusion strengthened by the broken pottery found
here by Mariette and the two springs of turbid water. A well has
also been discovered outside the E. wall of the temple, which may
be the spring described by Strobe.

The Room marked F on the plan is the most interesting of the
other apartments in this wing. The entrance to it is on the left
(F) side of the space between the sanctuary and the third row
of columns in the second hypostyle hall. The door leading to it is
named'the great door of Rennie-men (to. Seti), the favourite of
Sokar'. To this deity, Osiris-Sour or Ptah-Sour-Osiris, keeper of
the realm of shades, this room is consecrated, though other gods,
such as Nefer Tum, Home, and Thoth are also represented here.
The king appears in the act of adoring sacrifice. To the extreme
right on entering, an the wall between the doom, are reliefs of
richly adorned Niiometcrs, the symbols of the state of stability
and permanence aimed at by Pharaoh; the inscriptions inform
us that they were dedicated to the Osiris of the under-world, PtahSukaruTatnnen, who was worshipped in the Memnonium of Abydos.
On the entrance-wall, to the right of the door, is the bark of Sekar,
and a list is given of the titles of this god of the many aliases,
who was revered in so many different spots. The form of the three
columns preserved here is peculiar. The cylindrical shafts, which
bear the abacus without any transitional member, are flattened at
the points where their periphery would touch an cxscribed square,
and hence their section is in the shape of an octagon with four
straight and four curved sides. ._._.. The doors to the right, on each
side of the above-mentioned Nilometers, lead into two oblong rooms
with vaulted ceilings, which have partly fallen in (P1. q, r) .------The
other apartments of this wing contain nothing of special interest.
They are all ruinous, and five of them cannot be entered except from
the outside, .r.MMr.rm In visiting the Memnonium of Abydos, the traveller
should bear in mind that he has to do with a cenotaph, dedicated
to the manes of a king apetheosised as Osiris and to his forefathers;
and he should also remember that the site of the building was determined by the belief that the souls of those who had been'sanctified' near the Holy Tomb could look forward with confidence to the
highest joys of the world to come.

Monuments TO THE NORTH. Not only Seti, but also his son has
erected a cenotaph to himself near the tomb of Osiris. To reach
this Sepulchral Temple of names TL we turn towards the N. and
skirt the margin of the desert for a few minutes. It is in a very
ruinous state, but still presents many features of interest. The
ground-plan of a peristyle court, several rooms, and the sanctuaries
beyond them can still be traced; but the average height of the remaining walls is only 5'6 it. The picture of win presented to us










