68 Route d, ABYDOS. Temple of Ramses "

here is all the more striking from the obvious pains of the founder
to make a costly and enduring monument. Where Seti contented
himself with limestone, Ramses made lavish use of granite, Oriental
alabaster, and black graywaoke. The remaining fragment: show
that Ramses erected obelisks of granite in front of his cenotaph, and
that caryatide-like figures of Osiris, new long since shattered, stood
at the sides of the first peristyle court. Plastic ornamentation was
freely used and so richly painted that the colours have to this day
clung to some of the fragments. Ramses followed the example of
his father in consecrating a chamber to the manes of his ancestors.
In 1818 Mr. Bankes discovered in the chamber to the left (E) of
the first cctostyle room a royal list of eighteen names, two of which
were partly destroyed, and the relics of these tablets are still in aim.
M. Mimaut, the French Consul General, tore down the walls on
which the important cartouches were represented and sent the stones
to Paris, whence they passed by purchase to the British Museum.
Almost no inscription has been left intact here. We learn, however,
that Ramses was much more anxious than his father to record his
own achievements. Not a few names of peoples and towns which he
subdued or captured may still be discerned among the ruins.

The visitor will gladly arrest his steps by the representation of
a grand procession, which is to be found inside the great court, to
the right and left of the entrance. The procession, beginning at
the N.W. corner of the hall, which was formerly surrounded with
Osiris-pillars, extends over the whole of the N. wall. Four temple
officials are represented, one described as a secretary, two with
leopard-shins as priests of Osiris and of the house of Ramada Menriamon Khnumt Abdu (connected with Abydos), and the fourth as
Kerhub. Animals, some living and some dead, are brought to them
for sacrifice. Among these are antelopes, geese, and oxen of extraordinary size and fatness. On the right side of the foreucourt are
similar scenes, in which the procession is still more grandly equipped.
Here appear the royal wsruchariot, numerous officials, and negroes,
while incense is burned before the statue of the monarch. The co » louring of these figures is surprisingly well preserved.

On the outside of the temple, N. side, is an inscription relating to
the Kheta war, discovered by Eisenlohr in 1870; unfortunately only the
lower parts of lines are preserved. Adjacent, to the W. and N... are
representations of events in the Khan War. similar to those of the
Ramesseum at Thebes. The exterior of the S. wall is covered with a
long inscription, recounting the building of the temple, of which the
following is a translation.'Behold his Majesty, Life, Salvation, and
Health, the beloved son representing his father Unncfer and makin him
a beautiful and lordly dwelling, built for eternity of white, goo, fair
stone, the two great pylons of finished workmanship, the door-ways of
syenite. The doors therein of bronco, plated with real electrum; the
great seat (to. the inner sanctuary) of alabaster; its sanctuary covered
with gr.: nite, and its exalted seat of up up, the meshes (cradle) for its
cycle of gods. His exalted father lies within, even as Ra is united with
heaven; his lordly ortrait is by him that beget him, even as Horus on
i... the throne of his other. He has daily multiplied the offerings for all








