Necropolis. ABYDOS. 4. Route. 69

times, for the feasts of the year, the ream
for each day for himself. He filled the temple with all things, a superabundance of gifts of nourishment, bulls, calves, oxen, geese, incense,
wine, and fruit, filling it with labourers, enriching it with fields presenting cattle, filling the storehouse with superabundance, the arse
reaching to heaven, the servants of the domains of the offering being the
captives of his brave sword. His treasure-house filled with all game,
with silver and gold in bus, the storehouse full of all things sent as
tribute from all countries He has constructed numerous canals, and has
planted timber of all sorts, fragrant plants from the land of Foot; he
has done all this, the son of Re, the lord of the diadems, the beloved
of Osiris and of the gods the lords of Abydos".

Like the temple of Seti, that of his son Ramses was also a
sanctuary dedicated to Osiris, though in each case the predominant
feature is the glorification of the monarch in his apotheosis as
Osiris. Mariette was therefore on a wrong tack when he saw a
special temple of Osiris in the enclosure (PL lil; p. 52) to the N.,
near the village of Etuthrbch, and spent much time and money in
an attempt to find the actual grave of Osiris. Obviously this was
merely an older sanctuary, erected by the kings of the 12th and
13th Dynasties on the site of a still more ancient temple. [ Two
steles in the Louvre, numbered 0 M and C 12, and the great stole
of Mentuhotep, new in the museum of Gizeh, give us information
concerning these buildings.) Nowadays this temple is a more heap
of rubbish, and the few interesting'finds' made here, such as the
statues of Usertesen I. and Usertesen 111., and some inscriptions of
the time of Tutmes 111., have been sent to the museum of Gizeh.
The same institution received the many hundred steles found partly
on the site of this temple and partly in the Necropolis of Abydos.
Three such cemeteries are distinguished. The first, containing
tombs of the New Empire, from the 19th Dynasty downwards,
lies to the S of the temples of Semi L and Ramses H. Another
(NdcroPole do Centre) lies to the W. of the path leading from the
temple of Ramses H. to the so- « called temple of Osiris, and contains
graves mainly of the 6th and 11th Dynasties. Here was found the
historically valuable tablet of Una (see Baedeker's Lower Egypt,
p. 307), who accompanied three successive rulers of the 8th Dynasty
in their campaigns. The third or neeropolis, to the W. of the
so-eil temple of Osiris, contains numerous graves of the 12th
and 13th Dynasties, but also many of the new empire. Among the
interesting steles found here were those of a Neferhotep of the
13th Dynasty and of Sheshonk, the latter erroneously pronounced
by H. Brugsch to have been a Persian satrap. The pyramidal structures found in the N. and central cemeteries are also interesting.
Still farther to the W. lies a quadrangular enclosure surrounded by
a lofty wall and named Shunet es-Zebib (PI. 1V; p. 52; magazine of
the Zibehes), which probably served as a place of defence against
the incursions of the Beddins of the Great Oases. A Coptic Consent
(Ph Ar; p. 52) to the NE. of this point, dating from the year 1306
of the Coptic era, scarcely repays a visit.



