70

5. From Bolidneh to'gensh (Denderah),

Comp. Map, 39. 8.

56 M. Emanuel: in Mfg hires. Comp. p. 45.

Between Belidneh and Kenoh the Dam Palm (Hyphaana thebaica) becomes more and more common, generally occurring in
groups and increasing in size and beauty as we travel southwards
(comp. p. 28). It is a iauwleared palm of moderate height, dividing
into two parts at the upper end of the stem and sometimes repeating this bifurcation two or three times. It extends far to the S. of
Egypt, and whole forests of it are found on the upper Nile. Its
large nuts contain a soft and fibrous pulp, which is edible and
tastes like sweet case; while various objects are made out of the
hard rind. Its timber and hast are also of considerable industrial
value.

The ancient Lepidotum must have lain on the E. bank of the
river Opposite Belidneh; but, though described by Ptolemy as a
large town, no trace of it remains. The Lepidotus (the Cyprinus
lepidotus of Geofiroy, and Glues doctor. of Savigny) was held here
in high honour, though, according to Humid), it was one of the
fishes that swallowed the Phallus of Osiris and was hence generally
regarded with special abhorrence.

From Belieneh to Keno }; the Nile valley lies almost due E. and
W. About 4 M. from the & bank lies Semhdd, on ancient rubbishmonnds. Nagi-Hamadi, also on the S. bank, 19 M. from Belidneh,
is the station for Farah", 3 M. to the 8., now an uninteresting
village with a large sugarui'actory belonging to the Khedive.

Bo late as the 18th cent. this was still the seat of the great shekh,
who was the head of the Feeders (pl, here pron. Bavaria), or
tribes of mounted Arabs on the left bank of the Nile. The comparative
width of the river-plain makes horse-breeding an important occupation
among these tribes. and their shaggy grey dogs are also celebrated. The
letters are frequently seen guarding the flocks of sheep, and are easily
distinguishable from the worthless and cowardly core that haunt the
streets of the towns and villages. When encouraged to attack by their

owners, these brave animals are exceedingly dangerous antagonists-From Farshilt to the Great Omit. see R. M.

91/2 M. Hen (W. bank) and Ihurr'ttittirkd (E. bank) lie nearly
opposite one another, at one of the sharpest bends in the stream.
Wha, a large but miserable-looking village, was the home of Shé'hh
Selim, who died a few years ago, at a very advanced age, after
sitting stark naked on the bank of the Nile for 53 years; he was
regarded by pious Moslems with grant humour and was deemed to
possess great powers in helping navigation and barren women. His
grave here is covered with Arabic inscriptions and votive gifts in
the form of small boats.

Those who wish to visit the scanty ruins of the ancient Biospolis
Parse traverse the village in the direction of the mountains. cross two
doe ditches, near which stand the finely built piers of a ruined
bri go, and reach ('25 min.) a large mound of debris, known as Global Her
(he. Horus). This is the only remnant of the ancient Ilia
exception of a fragment of a temple of the: g.; i§.tolei: rrins: r2: rn "',)':'";








