sass ins-sumo. 5. Route. 71

where, too, some stones bearing the cartouches of Ptolemy Philometor
project from the ground in a clear space. Nothing of interest is to be
seen here except one of the largest and oldest lebbek-trees in Egypt.
The extensive cemetery contains numerous Code inscriptions. Hiero
glyphic inscriptions have been found in grottoes in a hill to the W. of
the town.

Kagr eeljhri'ydd (mail steamer station) marks the site of the aneient Ghenohoskion, which is mentioned by Ptolemy, by Stephanus
of Byzantium, and in the Itinerary of Antonino, and belonged to
the Nomos Panopolitea No remains are visible except a few fragments of the riverwall, with an unimportant Greek inscription of the
Roman period. It owes its name, meaning'geese pasture' (XmaBocxefov, Cept. genecrr'r, from the ancient Egyptian Geese lake),
to the fact that immense quantities of geese, a favourite food and
sacrificial ofi'ering of the old Egyptians, were reared hem Its propinquity to the home of Menus (Thisahbydos) makes it seem quite
natural that graves of beer antiquity (6th Dynasty) should be found
in the neighbourhood. These are reached from the village of Keg):
ee-Saiyed in about 11/4 hr. Donkeys, but no saddles, may be obtained, through the Shekh er-Beled. We first ride through a wellntilled district, cross a bridge over a canal which waters the district,
pass the village of Isbah, and reach the Arab hills. The ancient
tombs, constructed of light-coloured and unusually fine-grained
limestone, now come in sight; they date from the reigns of Pepi,
Marita, and Raneferka, all of the 6th Dynasty. The large tomb
situated farthest to the let t contains representations and inscriptions
which are identical in style with those in the most ancient part of
the Necropolis of Memphis. The ceiling was leftroughmhewn. Some
of the small inscriptions cut in the living rock near the entrance
are in Coptic. The representation! on the inside of the entrancewall have been almost wholly destroyed, but some ships may be
distinguished to the right of the door. On the right wall are figures
bearing funereal gifts and a large sacrificial table. The rear-wall
is divided into two distinct portions, as the left side of the tomb
has been pushed much farther into the rock than the right. In the
latter are two niches. That to the right contains an image of the
deceased, one of the chief dignitaries under the Pharaoh Raneferha,




named Zeta,". From the second niche, farther

to the left, a mummy-shaft descends obliquely; adjacent is a Cop
tie inscription. In the deeply recessed rear-wall of the left side
are four smaller niches, probably intended for the coffins of members
of Zuta's household deemed worthy of special honour, m The next
tomb, farther to the right, is of even greater interest than the one
just described. It belonged to an official named Atkhenn, who lived
in the reigns of Pepi, Marin, and Raneferka, and was not only one
gaged in the construction ofthe pyramids of these monarchs, but was
also a distinguished warrior. The pyramids were muntriP0aoi1 Platte'.



