72 Route 5. TABENNA. From Bctidneh

'Fine Ascent', and'Scene of Life" fifl l A 8 g A 6:5 SEA
We 2.., §.__ a 3m'

The names of the three kings and their pyramids were found in the
inscriptions to the right and left of the entrance (outside). The
tomb is in the form of a rectangle, with the mummy-shaft opening in the back-walL The representation of Atkhenu, to the left
of the entrance, is very lifelike and derives peculiar interest from
the fact that the grandson of the early period are seldom represented,
as here, in full military activity Our hero, another Una (see
Baedeker's Lower Egypt, p. 307), lifts the arm vigorously to strike
his foe. The mode of wearing the hair and headdress, seen both
in this figure and. that of Atkhenu's wife, Is unusuaL Ackhenu was
a rich man, possessing, according to the inscriptions, 2350 oxen.
On the left side of the rear-wall are represented several scenes from
the private life of the deceased. Cattle are being slaughtered, cooks
are busy at their work, etc. Above the door leading to the mummyshaft we see a large altar, adjoining which is a long but much damn
aged inscription. - The smaller tombs in the vicinity are less
interesting. Several Comic inscriptions testify that anchorites found
retreats in these tombs during the Christian period. We are new
approaching the region which, in the time of Pachomius, was most
thickly populated with monks and anchorites.

Farther on we pass a fine mountain-mass, which looks especially
imposing by afternoon light, and see several thriving villages, often
situated close to the river. Deshneh, a steamboat-station. on the
N. bank, 13 M. from East esmSaiyhd, is situated on the ruins of an
ancient town. F

Thelaite of the celebrated Tabenna, which lay between Kan (Bicepslis) and Denderah (Tentyra), must be sought for either here or close to
Reach. It belonged to the name of Tentyra and its Coptic name was
Tabenneseh which may be translated'place of the his palms'. The Greeks
supposed that'nest' meant specs (news) or island, and hence it comes that
the town of Tabcnnesss, situated on the mainland, is generally spoken of as
the Island of Tasman. It is said that the Arabs name it Gui"!: l-Gharb
"nu of the West, but no support of this could he found on the spot.
St. Jerome relates that at the end of the 4th cent. no fewer than
509% monks assembled in the district of Tabennesus to celebrate the
Easter Festival. All of these followed the rule of Pachomius and belonged either to the chief monastery (Monasterium Maine): or to the
smaller cocnobia, laurae, and anchorite cells dependent on it. It is marvellous that the temple of Denderah (p. 80), so close to this community
of fanatics. should have been left almost intact. Perhaps the explanation
is that at the time the monks settled here the strife about dogmas amused
much more excitement in the ecclesiastical breast than the dislike of
heathen goo that had long since become harmless.

56 M. (17 M. from Deshneh ] 3mm (steamer-station), a town
with 15,400 inhab., lies on the E. bank of the Nile at the point where
the river, suddenly abandoning its northward course, turns to theW.,
almost at right angles. It is the capital of the fifth Mudiriyeh of
Upper Egypt, which is 597 sq. M. in extent and contains a populafion
« 406,858. The Greek name of the town wag Katrina) a:'N town'.



