to Kermit. KENEH. 5. Route. 73

At the time of the pilgrimage to Mecca { tench presents a very lively
scene, as it is than frequented by large numbers of the participators
in that great religious picnic. The spiritual and material wants of
the pious Hcdjddj are catered for by six spacious mosques, numerous codes-houses, and a large number of places of amusement, among
the attractions of which Egyptian dancing-girls are prominent. For
the rest Keneh differs little in general character from the other
towns of Upper Egypt. The traveller should not fail, however, to
see the most valuable piece of land near Kaneh, which is about one
Feddan (3500 sq.yds.) in area and yields an excellent variety of
potter's clay that has made { tench pottery, like that of Assifit, famous
throughout the country. { tench has a special reputation for its
Kala; (pl. of Kalle), or cool porous water-bottles, and for its Bonds
and Zir, large vessels used in carrying, purifying, and preserving
water. In some of the early Egyptian inscriptions, figures of the
Belles and lit appear as distinctive symbols, in the exact forms in
which they are made to-day. Hundreds of thousands of these clay
vessels are annually exported from Keneh in boats of a primitive
but not unpractical description, constructed for the purpose, in
which they are piled up in pyramidal form, fastened together with
ropes made of the best of the date-palm and attached to rectangular
frames. A trustworthy report flares the number sent away in 1860
at 900,000. Considerable activity is also manifested in the manufacture of kiln-dried pottery, generally either red or black, used for
ehibouk-hetulis, bottles, pitchers, vases, drinking-vessels, aim, of
every size and shape. The almost invariably graceful forms and
tasteful decorations of these utensils may be unreservedly set down
as a bequest from ancient Egypt.

6. Routes through the Eastern Desert.

Enrich is a place of some importance as the starting-point of the
caravans traversing the Arabian desert to linger (p. 77) and as an emporium of the trade of Upper Egypt with the coasts-districts of the Red
Sea. It consequently odor-dc a good opportunity of making a short and
comparatively easy desert journey, as the interesting excursion to { loser
can be made without any very great privation or danger. Th3 carnvnuroute Ieailg vii gamma traversing the rocky Arabian Desert, which is
not only of great scenic grandeur but also full of interest for the naturalist and the archaeologist. Eosér, a art on the Red Sea, is about
110 M. from geneh, and the journey can be made comfortably in four,
or at most five days. _

These desert-routes were important even in antiquity for the trade
with the seaports and the land of Pest (Arabia) on the one side and the
valuable quarries in the mountains of the Arabian Desert on the other.
Spices and other costly products were cent across the desert to $ 911811,
at first on donkey-back and afterwards on camels, while green breccia
and several varieties of granite were sent down to the sea in return. The
most important points on the Red Sea, named from N. lo 8, were Moos
Hermes (now AW Bar tl-WN, in the latitude of mamas; Looker
Limes new goods; and Berenike, in the latitude of Aswan. The route
from hunch to hires Hermes leads to the N.E., and a short detour may
be made through the Wadi march, with its granitequa it -past









