74 Route th Bill'AMBAR. Eastern Desert.

the Roman town and colony of Hydraulics or Fons Manna, which lies
in the latitude of use, about 3 days' journey from Keneh. Outside the
walls lie a temple and other buildings, and some large columns and Greek
inscription: have been found in the quarries, which were worked chiefly
in the time of Hadrian and Trains. About two days' journey farther to
the N. is Gebcl Damn ('smoke mountain'), the ancient porphyry quarries
of which were worked by the Romans. Here are the ruins of an Ionic
temple of the time of Trajan (never completed), some remains of an irregularly built town, and two large water-reservoirs. The old route led
hence to Myer Harness, the harbour of which has been edited up and is
now practically useless. Travellers making for the Sinai Peninsula journey to the N. from the porphyry quarries for two or three days more.
and sense by boat to Pie [ see Baedeker's Lower Egypt, p. 515). Those
who undertake one of these journeys should may the IteiwtrriiWe' of
Lepsius and Wilkinson's well-known work.

A much more interesting journey than that to Gebel Dukhtn is the
trip to ginger, or at least to dei gonad-met, where there are numerous
Egyptian inscriptions. For the journey (there and back) ill-ll days should
be allowed, and Egyptologists will probably want 2'3 days more. It is
generally undertaken from lieneh, but we may also choose the old route
from daft (Koptos, p. 98), or we may start from Loner. The first two
mute » unite at cl-garn and are joined at hoisted by that from Loner.
The necessary camels may be obtained in Fone), with the aid of one of the
consular agents (comp. p. 72). The route from hunch (telegraph-wires from
Fils w $ 01930 leads first through the villages "BMkh Retail), Bowls, and
Kara'Imrdn, which follow each other in quick succession the first on the
left, the other two on the right side of the road. he first night is
generally spent at the caravanserai of Bir'Amhar, shout (pi, bra. from
much, where the lofty palms and shady sycamore: offer a.
most inviting haltingplace. The large caravanserai was armed at the
expense of an Ibrahim Pasha for the use of the $ 03.3: caravans and the
Mecca pilgrims. The structure comprises several separate buildings.
covered with dome-shaped roofs and surrounded by courts and colonnades. It has no owner and is free to everyone to use as he likes. As
nothing is done to keep it in repair, it is rapidly falling into decay, like
most of the Oriental buildings of the kind, and threatens soon to be a
complete ruin. In the deserts of Upper Egypt the temperature at night
is so mild, even in winter. that strong and healthy persons may safely
sleep in the open air if warmly wrapped up; and for various reasons this
is preferable to a night in the caravanserai. Those, however, who prefer
to take their chances in the interior should not fail to make the most
minute examination of the room in which they intend to sleep, in order
to clear out the vermin with which it is almost certain to be infected;
scorpions and venomous snakes are by no means uncommon visitants.

It is the duty of the Khobtr, or guide in charge of the caravan, to see
that everyone and everything are ready betimes in the morning, so that
a sufficiently early start may be made to cover the ground allotted to
each day's much, He is hem responsible for the safe conduct of the
entire party, and expects implicit obedience to his marching orders. We
soon turn our backs on the verdant green district bordering the Nile
and enter the barren desert, almost entirely destitute of vegetation, which
lies between the great river and the coast of the Red Sea. The first part
of the route is very unedifying. We advance steadily, ascending almost
imperceptibly, through a monotonous plain, intersected in all directions
by small undulating heights. All around us extends the interminable
yellowish gray. sun-bleached rocks of the desert; not a trace of
life is visible, not a single green tree or shrub. At the hill of





tithe horn'), which rises to the left of the caravan-route, about midway
between Bir Umbar and Lotétoh, the road from Keneh is joined by that
from gram. Not { touch but Raptor, the modern Knit, a little to the 8.,
was the starting-point of the road constructed by the ancient Egyptians
for the traffic between the Thcbai'd and the Red Sea. From this point
onwards we therefore follow one of the most anc








