Eastern Desert. matron. 6. Route. 75

known. From the hieroglyphics on the rocks and temple-walls at f.Tars%.
unit we learn that the ancient Koptos road formed a link, as early as
am years before our era, in the intercourse carried on between the mu
valley and Arabia, via the desert and the sea.

We now ride in a SE. direction through a dreary district, in which
the only variety is afforded by an occasional Memento or listings. The
liobwalas are simply spaces covered with camel's dung, easily distingnished from the surrounding soil by their darker colour and their smooth,
cementwlike surface. They occur on every great caravan route at regular
intervals and are of the utmost importance as sign-posts showing the road.
Hence no khabir or camel--driver passes one of these places without giving
his camels an opportunity to contribute their quote to the maintenance
of the hiobwala. The Marriage: or halting-places are 71/24) M. apart and
serve also as measures of distance. The swift-running camels take their
name from the number of matys 5 they can reach in one day. Thus a
camel which can - 10 mpg, is. 75-90 at, in one day is known
as an "Ashore? (runner of'ten'). Other milestones of the desert are afforded
by the skeletons of camels, horses, and asses, and by small cairns above
the remains of unfortunate travellers who have lost their lives in this
dreary waste.

The honor caravans usually pass the second night in the village of La. »
hitch (9 hrs. from lint? and Bir'Amhar, 12% bra. from { tench }, which is
chiefly inhabited by insomnia; it is also a halting-plate for caravans coming in the op osite direction. The small oasis has two wells, five palms, a
small piece o tilled ground, a few mud-huts, and a half-ruined Arab caravansersi. It is a characteristic specimen of a desert-village and od'ers much
to interest the stranger. It is a place of great comfort and convenience
to the traveller, as its resources include the materials for a solid and
satisfying supper in the shape of mutton, goat's flesh, poultry, eggs, m.
The dogs here are great thieves and care should be taken to leave nothing
within their reach at night. Near the chief well are some fragments of
a Greek inscription of the reign of Tiberius Claudius.

The first Roman military station, the Hydreuma, now called by the
Arabs Kw st-Bem ('castle of the maidens"), is 3 hrs. from Lahétah. It
lies to the S. of the caravan route and forms an oblong 125 n in length
and 101 ft. in breadth. The wall inclosing the oblong, formed of layers
of sandstone without cement, was 6%: ft. high. Within the wall He 20
small chambers opening on a rectangular inner court, the only am from
which is on the N. side. No water is now procurable here. To the N.
of the path, opposite the ruin of the Hydreuma, stands a rock of sandstone with numerous graffiti in Greek, Coptic, Arabic, Himyaritic, and
Sinaitic characters.

At a distance of about 2 hrs. from the Hydreuma the rocks close in
and form a winding pass or gateway named Matron ]; u-Sezam. On the
one: Abe Ketch ('father of the elbow"), the rock at the entrance to the
pass, are more graffiti, older than those at near el-Benat; one of them
contains the name of the religious reformer Amenhotep 1V. We now
teg, rocky scenery through which the second part of the

user route leads. In the distance to the right, rise the S. foot-hills of
the Hammad! Mia, while nearer and in front are the S.W. spurs. ThroughOut the whole of the Nile valley from Cairo to Phillie the traveller encounters no such picturesque scenery as he ace: in traversing the magnihcent rocky formation, of this part of the Egyptian-Arabian desert. Even
the imposing granite cliffs! islands and the quarries of scenic

ale before the rocky mass of the gossamer, rising to a height of lose it.

he outliers of the range consist of a yellow sandstone, followed by the
red'Nubian' ammo". mumbling that of the Black Forest, while the great
central mass is composed of granite.

Beyond the hiutrak esrdelam the hills again diverge. Among them,
to the N. of the caravanwroute, lies a second Roman station, with a tilledin well. About 2hrs. farther on the hills of reddish-yellow sandstone
give place to lame: and almost black hills of broccia, through the valleys
of which, new wide and now narrow, the caravanygfigsinnsfitia Befgm"







