7 6 Route 6. Win: HnMiMiT. Eastern Dam.

sing with the black mountains and stretching among them for along way
is the Wadi. Emmet, where the green breccia was quarried in the most
ancient times. In l hr. more we reach the Bin Enmdmdt. a well 18 ft. in
diameter with a stone coping. Near the well are the remains of a Roman
wall, and between the two are five unfinished sarcophagi, some completely
shattered. Near the well begins a series of short graffiti, including an
inscription of Fibre em hob, a so erintendcnt of labourers, and represent: ing Amman with e ram'e heed eating the diet crown. The eartouche
of sea H. is also met with. About 1 hr. farther on are longer inscriptions. In the first a miner named Art on beatpe is mentioned and the

symbol of the crow-bar is given. The numerous inscriptions of the

old empire found here, belonging to the 5th, 6th, 1111., 12th, and 13th
Dynasties, have been published by Lawns (Part IL of his'Ihsnkmii1er0
and have recently been completed by. aoieaigel1eK. They h n with
kings Testers-Assn and Uses of the 5th, and Unarmed and Pepi o the 6th
Dynasty. The most interesting of all is the inscription of the 8th year of
Bank }; bare, in which a military expedition from Kama! to Roses is recorded; it gives the digs" (is. The name of Rohannu also occurs. Among
the later inscriptions of the filth Dynasty may he mentioned one of the
3rd year of Ramses f'Dtsnkmiilar' of Le sins, m, 219:, transl. in Brugseh'e
'History of Egypt', Eng. trench, Vol., p. 175 at squ. We learn from
this inscription that in the part of this eeert named Robeson

m { 5 W lay a special district of the Ramamat Rte.

3 WM _ I
"i' M

known as if m mama Pa in en bckhsn, or tlm'Bekhen
mar, so called from the Bckhsn found there, a dark-green, almost black,
and exceedingly hard diorite, which was highly wind by the Egyptian
sculptors. This region is figured in tha fragment! "A map of the time
of Ramses 11. now { preserved in the museum of Turin; and from it it
would seem that gol also was prrt-d in the Behhen Rte. In the treasury
of the temple of Medium: Hum we find mention made of gold from Rush

a
(Ethiopia), Teh (earn), Nubit (Omhos) and%. By this last we

should undoubtedly understand gold brought by the Koptos trading route,
but not gold obtained there. The Torin Museum possesses the plan of
another map of e gold-mining region (of the time of Soil 1.), the old
from which seems to have been carried over the caravan-route en in;
opposite 194,711. The inscriptions in the screened Temple of Reddsiyeh
(more properly dei'dhbds; see p. 253) treat of the waterasupply on this
route to the gold mines.

In the great inscription of Ramses IV. a complete list is given of all
the higher and lower officials, as well as of all the workmen including
em Aperio (from the desert to the E. of the Delta), who had been sent
to the quarries by command of the king. The total number emanate to
-. for whose support commissariat columns were constantly
on the move between Koptos and Bekhcn. At line 18 we read:'Total 83%.
Provisions for these were brought a on ten waggons, and six yoke of
oxen were attached to each waggon in going from Egypt to uu, Banana
M15: - Amuug the later inscriptions is one of the time of Darius, giving
the genealogy of 25 architects. Xerxes and Artercrxes are also mentions
in the inscriptii no of Persian officials.

Just beyond the quarries the route turns from the N.E. to the S. and
passes the ruins of es8as6khir, an old mining site. Those who wish to
continue their journey to the Red Sea have still two short days' marches
ahead of them, the route leading through the deifiésgfnhtofiidoh (Bin





