Eastern Desert. KOSER. B. Route. 77

5141137133) and thence through the Wadi Ambagi to heads or Kesseir, on
the Arabian Gulf, the Lesser Listen (White Harbour) of the Ptolemies and
the Tao of the ancient Egyptians. About a hi. to the N. the scanty remains
of 03a Kosé'r, corresponding to the harbour of Panama, the ancient Acaaem, which was named thus in honour of the sister of Ptolemy Philadelphus. liosér is now an unimportant town of about 3090 mm., with
a quay, a wooden mole 400 Is long, two mosques. and several bazaars.
The small houses are all whitewashed. The only edifices of any size are
the government buildings erected by Mohammed un nt, tlt the mole,
the adjacent customs-house, and. a large grain-magazine, a so belonging to
the Egyptian government.

In going from linger towards the Kite the Beduins sometimes prefer
another and more southerly route than that through the dei Earnhardt.
This diverge »; from the route above described at the Btr tel-Inglis in the
dei Bidets (see above) and team at first through the winding dei irabr
elaKhddtm, afterwards passing the 021255 Nam: end through the pass of
Brat art7hoetlr into the dei Ghazdi. To the right rise the conical Gebel
Daghmiyah and Gebel Moahdghir. We next follow the Wadi Homadoh, which
farther on takes the name of dei « ti- { isms from me tiso mm Tmsr,
which am" it on the right. The night is spent at Kodak, a village with
water and a few huta ot the C Vbnbduh. At the Gear! way; a road running from N. to 8., and farther on reach
Amarah, with another well and more'Ababdeh huts. Thence our route
lies through the dei Nor and the dei flash to the Bir cl-Kash, e
dried-np wen, beyond which we pass numerous narries of groan breach.
Beyond the passes of ram annex (sandstone ormation) and Rho: etEemrah we reach the Mobwala (see p. 75) of lids defer, whence we go
on through the Wrist Magma; to Khomeini KW sl » Ghtr. Lastly we pro-coed rid. (learnt s'Weh to Lama (p. 75), where our route unite: with
the more northerly one already described.

Caravans on the way from gage: to Esneh take a route still farther
to the 8., via the well of Dorfdwt. The N. route from News? to { leash
is now seldom used.

The journey to Ber-safes, on the Arabian Gulf in 24° N. lat, and to
the emerald mines W' to the N. of it, is seldom undertaken. We may
start from Keneh or Koptos, diverging at Lahétah from the route to Roger,
or we may b in at a paint apposite Edit: (Contwepoumopom 0r
mémeh fp. f J. On both routes traces of old watering stations are
discernible. Both Pliny and the Itinerary of Antonino (3rd cent. A.DO
five a list of the ancient stations, with their distance from each other
in Roman miles. The list in the Itinerary is as follows: thnieon 27,
Didyme "Afrodito 20 Kompani 22, Sorts 83., Aristonis 25, Phalaero 25,
A ollono, Kabuki, Kaenon Hydreuma 27, Berenike 13 m in all

1 Roman miles 2 about W English miles.

4hrlentgeleqtr took 11 days from Redesiyeh (p. 253) to Berenike, and
returned thence to herein in 8 days. lat Day. Btr Ahead (3 hrs), in the
was was, an ancient station with quarry-marka like those at el-Hosh,
near Silsileh (p. M) .,
with mbinmi one ot the x 19th Dynasties.~--3rd Da. More masons'
marks discovers. Ancient station of Aha Gestalt, with cisterns (not to
he confounded with the place of the same name near Berenike) .~--hth my.
Descent through the dei Boas, with its mu (selem and seydl, Acacia
Ehrenbergiana and A, nilotica). From this point a diverging route Jam
direct to the emerald mines of the wee: "strait (see below). We cross
the ma away. Un Wa mm m the right are rude representations of
giratres, meets, and ibeaes. Remains of an ancient station named Samuel,
with a cistern and chambers, occur in the "me wadi. We next enter
the broad green Wadi Hamish, and steer for the Gabe! Hagar, near which
is a spring of excellent water .---- 5th Day. Through huge granite rocks to
groups of ten and twenty rude stone huts. probably built by minors.

iew of Babel Zabdrah. On a rock to the right is a view of an Egyptian
bark, with sails and rudder. Farther on is a ruined station, with the
rennin: of a stone hut. hear this point our route is joined by the route








