78 Route 6. BERENIKE. Eastern Desert.

from Knit (K0 too), which Col. Colston followed in 1873. [ Beyond (9 hrs.)
Lahdtah (p. 7, Col. Colston's route led rid (6'1: hrs.) Marat, (8 hrs) a.
high-lying well, ed-Dagbag, two old wells (81/2 hrsJ, Beach (2 hrs."--- 6th Day. Ancient station of set--Dacia, with controtorts, chambers, and a large cistern, opening on the RE. Adjacent is
another smaller building. About 8 hrs. farther on we cross the watershed
between the me and the Red Sea. Two more cisterns. We pass the
granite hill of Abe Edd. with Bay. Descent into the Wtdi 6am. Station
in the form of a right-angled triangle. Two round cisterns. Lateral
valley diverging towards the emerald mines. The mountains (Gets! Ahead)
new rise to the right, instead of, as previously. to the left--« Bill. Day.
We proceed through the dei Abyad and me wade (Pt leaving the
Great Hermite to the right; then along the Wadi Ram". On'a height in
the dei Horde are some curious sh khs' graves, in a circular forum--9th Day. Seven other circular tombs; the well of eG2Tarairah lies to the
right; old structure of a large cistern in me WAaiu-Hamru Through the
Wddt Amrugam to tts, was: mum, which descends from the mountain
of that name, crosses our route, and proceeds in windings to the Red
Sea. The last station is Ate-Greta, comprising several buildings, the
largest of which, 60 paces long and 47 paces wide, contains the remains
of rooms. Another building seems to have been a reservoir for rain water.
~10th Day. Arrival at the ruins of the old temple of Berenike.

The town of Berenike (Benedict), situated in the same latitude as
decade, was founded in 3,0. 275 by Ptolemy Philadelphns, who revived
the commerce of the Red Sea by the establishment of several new ports.
The town which was named by Ptolemy after his mother, survival for
400 or 500 years. The ruins, still extant, surround the Temple which
faces the E.N.E. In front is a torment: 28112 R. in width and te ft, in
depth, which was adjoined by the temple proper (inner length 31 no,
comprising two rows of apartments. The central apartment, with some
what sloping sides, seems to have been the main one, as its ri ht and
left walls and also the outside of the entrance-well (to the is t) bear
traces of paintings, re resenting a king sacrificing to various deities. The
name of the Easy, Ti cries, sacrificing to the god Khan, appears here.
The representation on the left outside-wall shows an emperor (probably
Hadrian) appearing before a goddess, who seems to be, from the legend,

the tutelary deity of the green .2- "\ use emerald mine. To the left

of this main apartment is a covered corridor, with a window, and adjacent is a staircase leading to the roof. The temple was cleared from
rubbish in 1873 by Purdy Pasha, an American in the Egyptian service.

The Emerald linen, which were visited last century by Emma (1163
~73) and in this century by Cailliaud (idle-18), Belzoni, and Beechey,
were worked by the Arabs, according to Hakr'iei, down to the year 760 of
the Hegira (1870 A.DO, after which they were abandoned. homestead
rAli made an unavailing attempt to reopen them. They lie partly la me
Wadi Sam and partly on the amt gabiirah, id hi. to the N.. They are
best visited from Centre Apollinopolis, but may, like Berenike be approached by following the coast of the Arabian Gulf from 1509 r. The
first of these
is the name of a sun-worshipping king of the 18th Dynasty. Close to the
second, 13 hrs. from the Nile, is a temple hewn in the name on the Nile, see p. n
which Seti 1. dedicated to Amman. lie recious stones are new found
in the emerald mines. To the S. of the abet Zaharah lies the village of
habit, with the huts of miners and a rock-hewn temple, with a few Gmk
inscriptions. Among these is a reference to Sample and the Isis of Senskis.





