79
,. Denderah.

Both the'Three Weeks' and the'Four Weeks' Tourist Steamers stop
at Bender-ah in ascending the river, the first halting 3 mm, the second a
whole day. The mail-steamer also halts here for a few hunt: in descending the river.

For a visit to the temple the steamboats and dhahahiyehs moor at the
bank opposite garish. The distance to the temple (about 2 M.) is easily
accomplished in 1/2 hr. by the well-equipped donkeys standing in readiness.
Those who wish to make a prolonged stay may procure the necessary
conveniences for a night in the temple tram We kasper 2m Emma, who
lives in Ranch. The Arabs, however. are afraid of the "shit" or ghosts.
The visitor should not fail to be provided with candles or (better still) a
magnesium lamp for exploring the crypts and other parts of the temple.

The capital of the 6th name of Upper Egypt (ha-ti,'the district

of the place of the presentation of gifts') appears in the inscriptions

We
nuder several names. The two most frequent of these are [ E as
Q



W? 6413

An,'the town of columns', and the secular name 0 Tow-sir
CD Q

or W? To on tower, the town of the district enclosed

W
"by ramparts'. From the latter are derived the Greek Tentyra and
the modern Denderah.

We follow the bank of the Nile towards the N., through palmtrees, and then proceed to the W. through well-tilled fields, passing (right) a farm-enclosure guarded by yelping dogs; or we may
ride at once towards the W. in the direction of the Gate of Augustus
(p. 88) and proceed thence to the N, passing a door with unfilled
cartouches, to the N. entrance, where the cards of admission (see
Introd., p. air) are shown. The wall enclosing the temple is formed
of Nile bricks, and there is another entrance on the W. side. The
total enclosure is 317 yds. long and 306 yds wide, and besides the
large temple of Hathor contains a small sanctuary dedicated to Isis
and a eo-called'birth-house' (see below). The N. door, which is in
a straight line with the temple, is only 15" to the E. of N.; but in
the temple-inscriptions it is always spoken of as the E. entrance,
while the long sides of the temple are called the N. and S. sides.
In the following description we follow the true geographical position. The N. gate was built under the Emp. Domitian, who is here
named Germanicus. On the side next the temple appears the name
of Nerve Trajanns, also with the epithets of Germanium and
Dacicus.

From the N. gate a modern brick passage leads to the temple.
To the left of this passage lies a building deep-sunken in the debrie and wanting its front. Round it ran a colonnade, the capitals
of which, with the dwarf-like figure of the god Besa, project from
the sand. The remains include a rather large vestibule (33 ft. by
16% no, a long central room, two narrow slde-rooms some small








