89 Route 7. DENDERAH. Esther

chambers, and the fragments of a staircase (to the right). This
building is dedicated to the birth of Home, with whom the son of
each successive monarch is compared Similar Birth-Route, (Egypt.

[ :1.
pa-mes), called by Champollion Mameisi (Capt,'place of



birth'), occur in many other Egyptian temples (As, 253, 289, am).
The cartouches of Autokrutor Kisses, which Hathor presents to Horus Sam taut, have been supposed to refer to Augustus; but the
fact that the latter had no son makes this very doubtful. The'birth,
house' also contains the names of Trajan ard Hadrian to whom it
probably owes its existence. The paintings represent the can of
the young Horus, who is nursed and ministered to by goddesses and
women with cows' heads. - We now proceed to the temple, either
by ascending over the heaps of rubbish, or by returning to the N.
gate and walking thence in a straight direction.

"Temple of Esther at Denderah.

This interesting and mueh-admired building was dedicated to
Homer, the Egyptian Venue. The Portico (P1. E), which is sup
ported by 24 columns, is 139 ft. in breadth. Each of the columns
has a capital formed of four heads of Rather, with _ ears,
surmounted by a house, in reference to the meaning of Hathor,
Hat (to. house) of Burns. The columns next the entrance show
an open door. The six column! in the front row, three on each
side of the entrance, are united by balustrades. The rubbish round
the temple reaches to the balustrades in front and nearly to the
roof on the E. side; hence the floor of the temple appears sunken
and is reached by a flight of wooden steps. Originally, however,
the temple stood level with the ground, and its present appearance, like that of the temples of Bosch and Edfu, is due to the accumulated rubbish of centuries. In accordance with the plan of
other temples, a colonnade and a pylon should stand in front of this
portion; but perhaps the means to add these were not forthcoming.
The date of the temple is given by a Greek inscription of three
lines, which runs round the cornice on the exterior of the building
and reads as follows:

ruse. ATTOKPATOPOE. TIBEPIOY. KAIEAPOE. NEOI
SEBAETOY. Nor. esor. steamer. nor. am. amor. ATlA~
M01: oAAKKO'r.

HFEMONor KAI amor. comer KPIZHOT EUIETPAm
anor ZAPAHIQNOZ TPI'XAMBOT rrPATHrorNTor
01.. A110 an MHTP
oneness. KAI. Tor. NOMor. TO. HPONAON. across!"
no. MHTP
OUOAEQE. KAI. TOEZ. TO. arms.
L [ K. TIB ] error. museum corp KA ]

'Under the rule of the Easy, Tiberius, and under the prefect Aulus





