Temple. DENDERAH. 7. Route. 81

Avillius Fleeces, the governor Aulus Fulvius Grispus, and the distriet-governor Sarapion Trychambos, the inhabitants of the capital
and of the name dedicated the Process to the great goddess Aphrodite and her fellow-gods, in the twentieth O) year of the Emp. Tim
berius....' An inscription recently found by Diimichcn on the
E. side of the temple informs us that this outer wall of the temple
was decorated in the second year of the Emp. Tiberius Claudius
(42 A.D.). There are, however, many representations of the Emp.
Nero both inside and outside the temple. The crypts of the temple
date from the reigns of Ptolemy X., Ptolemy XL, and Ptolemy X111.
(Sober IL; Ptolemy Alexander; Neos Dionysus) » The inscriptions
running round the temple refer to Ptolemy XVI. 03333.an and the
Emp. Augustus. On the exterior of the rear-wall of the temple appears Ptolemy Kieres, accompanied by Cleopatra VI. and the little
Gmssrion; the inscription is Ptulmis, surnamed Kisres. In both
cases the Caesarion referred to is apparently the son of Caesar and
Cleopatra. The temple would thus seem to one its present form to
the last of the Ptolemies and the first Roman emperors. It is, however, obvious that the site was previously occupied by older temple
buildings, going back to the earliest period of Egyptian history.
King Pepi of the 6th Dynasty is repeatedly represented in the crypts.
In one of these crypts (No. 9) the ancient building plan of Denderah is mentioned twice. The first of these mentions occurs in the
description of an excursion of the goddess to Edfu on the first of
Epiphi:'The great building-plan (semi) of Act (Dendereh) was
found written in ancient characters on hide, of the time of the successors of Horus. Found in the interior of the wall of the royal
palace in the time of King Pepi'. Another passage mule:'The
great plan of Denderah, a restoration of the monument made by
King Bamenhheper (Tonnes 111.), after it was found in ancient
characters of the time of King Khufu'. The priests of Tentyra thus
ascribed the foundation of their temple to Khufu and Pepi. There
are, however, stones bearing the names of Amenemha L, Tot-mes 111., Tntmea It, Ramses n., and Ramses m, all of whom
probably either built or restored parts of the old temple.

If we compare the temple of Denderah with a similar structure
of the earlier period, such as the temple of Abydos or the great
national sanctuary of Karnak, we find it not less beautiful in its
own way, though of course for from competing with these gigantic
structures in magnificence or extent. Its chief characteristics are a
fine symmetry of proportions and dignified adaptation to its purposes. A happy blending of Egyptian seriousness with Grecian
grace, which meets us unmistakably at every turn, has a peculiarly
pleasing effect, and we feel much more at home in the halls of the
Hither of Tentyra than in the great hall of the god of Thebes, with
its forest of gigantic columns. Neither the figures nor the inscriptions sculptured on the wane compare in masterly ex ution With

BAEDEKRR tt Upper Egypt,








