82 Route 7. 7???



Humor

those in the tombs of the ancient kingdom or with those peculiar
to the times of a Sect "a Tutmes; but we cannot refuse our admiration even to these products of later Egyptian art. Here and
there (as in several chambers of the upper story) we meet specimens of hasty and poor workmanship; but as a rule the sculpture
of Dendereh is pleasing and harmonious in style and executed with
a care that does not overlook the smallest detail. The eye is uniformly pleased. by the harmony of the whole with its details and by
the great variety of composition which manifests itself in spite of
the prescribed form to which the artist was confined.

Neither the general architectural scheme of the temple as a whole
nor the style of the details shows any essential variation from those
that may be traced in the earlier Egyptian temples. The first
apartment, here as elsewhere, is a handsome Hypostyle Hall (PL E),
open in front, with 24 massive columns supporting the roof (comp.
p. 93). Next follows a room with six columns CPI. D), with three
apartments to the left (sum, xxx, us) and three to the right
(uni, nun, sum), from the last of which (XXIII) a passage leads
to the festal chambers beside Hall B. The next room (Pl 0),
with no columns, has apartment: and nm on the left. A
fourth hall (Pi, B), adjoined on the left by a single apartment
(xxx) and on the right by the suite of three festal chambers (um,
my, 1w), leads to the Adytum (PI. A), a long narrow room in
which the sacred boats were kept. From the passage (Pl a) which
encircles the latter, entrances lead into eleven side-chambers (left
w, v, u, Yo, m, IS, right rm, IX, n, n), which are grouped
round the main chamber (Pl. I) behind room A. There are also a
number of secret passages (crypts), constructed in the hollow wall
of the temple on the E, W., and 8, sides Then 113553335, which
are difficult of access, are in three stories, one above another (camp.
p. wo, Finally from the central hall 0, doors had on the right
and left to the two stairs which ascend to the roof of the temple
(comp pp. 91, 97).

The Egyptians had special names for each hallmd side-climber,
for each corridor and staircase, for each door and window, in hot
for each part, great or small, of the more or less complicated temples.
In not a few cases these names explain the use of the different
rooms; but the only certain information as to the special nature of
the various apartments is obtained from the Inscriptions, which
are arranged as a kind of ornamental border above and below the
paintings on the wall, much like the borders seen sometimes on old »
fashioned wall-papers. These inscriptions, which are of the gram"
importance both for the history of architecture and for the explanation of the temple--cult, usually hue thtsiftorttenta muged in the
same order. The name of the king, with all his titles and official
epithets, is first mentioned, followed by the statement that he built,
repaired, completed, or adorned such and such a room, or such and





