DENDERAH. 7. Route. 83



such a staircase, the name of which is in each case given, followed
by as full a description of the room in question and of what took
place there, as space will allow. Prof. deichcn uncovered the
inscription at the foot of the exterior wall of the temple in 1875
(p. 97), and found that, as at Edfu, the names and dimensions of
the chambers lying to the north were inscribed on the N. side, and
on the S. side those of the chambers lying to the south. He has
published the inscription with a translation i.

In our description, we begin with the Hypostyle Hall or *Khent
Hall (PI, E). The first large hall of an Egyptian temple frequently

"a



Edm, at Philae, and elsewhere. It has several other names as well.
Apparently with reference to the astronomical representations which
adorn both halves of the ceiling, it is frequently named in the ins


the Goddess Nut, who as the symbol of the vault of heaven was represented as a tall woman bending her face towards the earth and
letting her arms hang down A. colossal representation of this
figure is met with twice on the ceiling of the hypostyle room at
Denderah, and it is repeated twice more, in the apartment marked
XV. on the plan and in the central Osiris-room on the N. side of
the tample-roof. In the two last instances it occupies the entire
surface of the ceiling. Astronomical representations, whether simply
golden stars scattered promiscuously on a blue ground, or actual
copies of the constellations as seen at some particular time, have
been adopted as a suitable eei1inydeeoration in nearly every Egyptian temple and tomb. The two names above given are by for the
commonest for this first room, but it is also called'the seat of Osiris,
Horns, and Isis", and it is named in the inscriptions'the dwelling
of Rather, the house of the sistrum-playing, the house in which the
tambourine is sounded, the seat of the rapture ofjcy, the birthplace of the celestial goddess Net'. The hall is 143 ft. broad, 80 it.
deep, and about 59 ft. high.

On festal occasions the image of the goddess was conveyed in her
best to this Hall of Heaven, to meet there the sun-god, her father.
The decorative designs in this room chiefly consist, after the ancient
Egyptian custom, of representations of the royal builders of the
temple. The Bomsnemperors Augustus, Tiberius, Caligula, Claudius,
and Here are in turn depicted, each hearing some dedicatory gift
for Rather or some other of the gods worshipped at Denderah. The
central wall-spaces batsmen the columns to the right and left of the
main portal are each occupied with four designs, referring to the

, Strasshurg, 1877,










