84 Route 7. DENDERAH., Hatter

entrance of, the ruler into the sanctuary and to the ceremony of
incense, to which he must submit in the first chamber according to
the prescribed ritual. In the first we see the king (Nero) quitting
his palace, preceded by five banners with sacred figures, while the
high-priest (named Anmut-f) offers incense before him. In the
second design, Home and Thoth sprinkle the king with the symbols
of life; in the third, the goddesses of the south (Nekheb) and of the
north 1' Use) present him with the white crown and the crown
'Nefert'; in the fourth and last, the king is conducted before Rather
by the gods Month of Thebes and Turn of Heliopolis. Admission
into the temple proper was not granted to him until after this ceremony had been gone through, tho-sacred garment assumed, and the
purification by incense and holy water completed. The representations referring to these, and the explanatory inscriptions, are
quite in the same manner as those we have already noted in the
earlier temples of the time of Tutmes and Ramses.

The sculptured ornamentation on the ceiling, dealing with
astronomical subjects, is divided into a W. and an E. half. The
figures in the W. section are turned towards than (outside), those of
the other to the S. (inside). Each section is divided into three bands,
most of which consist of two or more rows. The exterior bend: of
each section correspond to each other, as do also the central and
inner bands. Between the two sections is another band, containing
10 sun-discs and. ii vultures, explained by Prof. Lauth as referring
to the 2191; year of the reign of Tiberius. - The exterior bands,
which are embraced'by a tall figure of the goddess of the heavens,
contain the twelve signs of the Zodiac in their upper rows; to the
right those of the N. sky (lion, serpent instead of the virgin, balances,
scorpion, archer, goat), to the left or s, those of the S. sky (waterscarrier, fishes, ball, twin-s, crab). In this row appear also the
principal constellations (Orion, Sirius, Sothis) and five planets
(S & tum, Mere, Jupiter, Venue, and Mercury } Mingled with the
other figures are the gods of the twelve hours of night, on the E. side
in ascending order (I to XII), and on the W. side in descending order.

The second rows of the exterior bands each contain 18 ships,
with the'Decani' or presidents of the weeks, mention" elsewhere
in other inscriptions. This long series begins in the W. section and
ends in the E. section. The second bands, both on the right and left,
consist of two rows each. At the four ends of the upper rows are the
four Winds, with expanded wings, which are adjoiued on the right
(next the entrance) by four figures of gods referring to Be, and on the
left by four similar figures referring to Tum, the god of evening.
Then follows a series of'Decani', beginning in the W. and continued in the E. section, consisting of the above-mentioned thirty-six'Decani' arranged in twelve groups of three, each conducted by
a president usually in the form of a serpent. The lower [ OWE of the
central bands contain, on the right (W.) the melee hum of the






