Temple. DENDERAH. 7. Route. 85

night, on the left (N.) the twelve hours of the day, each with their
eponymous divinities

The interior hand on the W. side exhibits three designs referring to the moon which is here represented as'ara', eye

In the first are the 14 days of the waning moon, in the second this
"days of the waxing moon represented by "divinities ascending
a flight of steps, while the victorious Thoth appears as a fifteenth
divinity beyond the moon-disc. Finally appears Osiris as the moongod, seated with Isis and Nephthys in a boat, floating above the
symbol of the sky m, which is supported by four female forms .-In the E. section the interior hand exhibits the course of the sundisc through the 12 hours of the day, represented by 12 boats. In
each disc appears the figure of the divinity to which the particular
hour was sacred.

On the W. side of the hall, between the second and third row
of columns (to the right of the entrance), and on the E side between the third and fourth row (on the left) are SidcwEntmnces
through which the sacrificial ofi'erings used to be brought into the
hall (com. p. 88)..

Of the three Prosckos Halls which we next enter, by far the
largest is the hexastyle first hall, the ~
Hell of the Appearance (PI, D), called in the inscriptions usekh
Ma or Hall of the Appearance, and'Hall of the Appearance of Her
Highness, i. c. Hathor the golden-rayed The.
inscription at the foot of the external wall
gives the measurement of this hall as 26 6115
square, which closely coincides with its actual
size, 451/2 ft. square. On feats }. days the'image
of the mighty sorta-goddess was carried in sow
lemn procession from its place in the holy of'
holies, and was not seen by the multitude as »
rambled in the vestibule until it reached this
ball, when the lofty double doors were thrown
open. Hence probably the name of the hall.

It is a remarkable fact that except in the
Khent Hall, the secret passages, and Room xx
(p. 88), the cartouches of the kings in all
the interior rooms of the temple remain
empty. In Room an the accompanying royal
cartouches are found:'Lord of the mists,
beloved by Ptah and leis'. The latter, which
is also found on the exterior W wall of the
temple, probably refers to Augustus, though the same designation
was also used for Caligula, Claudius, and Nero. 0n the E enternot well of the temple at Denderah and in the temple - h
















