86 Route 7. DENDERAH. Harbor

lee, Augustus is constantly indicated by the accompanying eartouchee'Autokrator Kitret'. The temple was probably built in the
unsettled times of the later Ptolemies, and the priests were therefore left in doubt whether to fill in the cartonches with the name of
Ptolemy or of Augustus.

The representations on the walls and columns, many of which
well deserve special attention, exhibit here also the Egyptian ruler
worshipping Rather or some other of the divinities revered in her
temple. They illustrate several most remarkable ceremonies, which
the king performed according to the prescribed ritual in presence of
the images of the gods in the temple. We have seen reason to believe that the sculptured decorations of all the templewchambers
were executed about the end of the period of the Ptolemies and the
beginning of the Roman empire. (The sculptures in some of the
chambers in the sunk-floor and in several of the higher secret passages, date from the reigns of Ptolemies X, XL, and XIII ] Tet in
spite of that, the entire adornment on the walleis arranged according
to early Egyptian patterns; so that the ceremonies here depicted
were not first introduced under the empire, and probably no Roman
emperor ever took part in these ceremonies in this temple of Rather.
The WIRE of the temple at Denderah exhibit exclusively Early Egyptian Manners and Customs. What we here learn are the ceremonies
imposed by the priesthood on the early Egyptian monarch who desired to worship the goddess. Thus in a representation to the right
of the entrance the king appears twice over in the same design.
First we see him, clad in a long robe and carrying a staff, entering
the hall, preceded by the priest wearing the panther-skin and
sprinkling incense on the burning censor. Next we see him standing before the image of Rather, his robe laid aside; bending forward he goes through the motion of cleaving the earth with the
short hand-plough in his hand, because it was an immemorial
custom that the Egyptian king should turn the first and on the site
of a temple. (In the explanatory inscription here, as elsewhere,
this ceremony is named'boi to', cleaving of the ground.) The king
also smote the first blow with the hammer at the laying of the foundation-stone, and shaped the first brick for the enclosing walls,
which were usually built of unburned bricks of Nile-mud dried in
the sun. All these ceremonies performed by early Egyptian monarchs
at the foundation of a temple, are here faithfully recorded amrding
to early models t both in visible shape and by explanatory inscriptions. They are also recorded in the lowest of the mar row:
on the W. and E. exterior walls of the temple. In the temple of
Home at Edfn the king is represented performing similar ceremonies.

Another picture, also referring to the founding of a temple,
appears on the immediately adjoining well. Here the king once
more appears before Humor, bearing in his hand rebuilding-Moi





