Twist DENDERAH. 7. Route. 87

_ thus. The ceremony is named in the inscription'the Building

of the Temple'; and the words placed in the month of the king and
arranged above the Khus run:'I have built the monument, the great
one, as a perfect building to all eternity'. The ceremony represented
in the following design also refers to the building of the temple.
The king, kneeling before Harbor, is shown shaping the first burned'
brick for the girdle-wall of the temple. As has already been mentioned in the description of the cult of Rather; that goddess is frequently extolled in the inscriptions at Benders ]! as the goddess of
joy, at whose festival wine flowed freely and the air was fragrant
with incense and all the perfumes of Arabia. Thus, as the inseriptions here inform no, the king mingles grains of incense and wine
with the material out of which he moulds the brick. On both sides
of the portal admitting to the hall are two long inscriptions, each
consisting of M vertical lines, and containing a list of all the names
under which the great Esther was worshipped at Benders ]: and elsewhere in Egypt. This is followed by a list of the chief gods and
divine geniuses, those of the temple at Edfu being named in greatest detail; and finally comes a list of the sacred serpents of Denderah,
which were probably not kept in the temple itself, but in the adjoining sacred groves.

We now enter the Side Chambers, of which there are three on
each side. All are of the same size, defined in the inscription on the
E. external wall as 111/3 ells long and 61/2 bus broad. The first

on the left side (Pl. XVIII) was called N Ast.t, or in the fuller
Q.

form, (shown e.g. on one of the staircascnwalls) (Y) p q Q E
~ C3

Asht. The inscriptions here clearly indicate that the incense, so
lavishly need at the sacred festivals, was compounded in this room
according to strictly observed recipes in which all kinds of sweet-a,
smelling ingredients were employed; and that the holy oils and
ointments for the various ceremonies were also here prepared. We
may therefore name this apartment the Temple Laboratory., All the
designs and inscriptions on the four walls of this apartment refer to
the incense prepared and preserved here; to the oils and ointments
need in the temple services; and to the various ingredients of which
they were composed. Two seven-lined vertical inscriptions on the
two parts of the entrance-wall contain what is to a certain extent a
summarised description of the representations on the adjoining walls
to the right and left. On each well are two representations, 15.6. four



£217 ] a
, Chemistry derives its name from the land of Kisser, called

'black land' from the dark colour of its soil.





