88 Route 7. DENDERAH. Heather

in all. They exhibit the royal builder of the laboratory worshipping
before Rather, Isis, Esther with the Horus of Edfu, and Isis with Heres Samteni In two of the designs the king is accompanied by one of
the lords of the laboratory, once with the divine Master of Anointing

El Monet, once with Home, the lord ofthc labou

rotary an, in the other two, by a goddess and two ram' s


headed divinities, who also stand in some relation to the work of the
laboratory. Both the king and his companions offer some of the
costly perfumes of the laboratory to the gods above named.

The room next the laboratory (Pl arm.) is named in the inscrip
a
tiona here found simply



Saki, which means'assembly
room','room','hall','apartment'. An indication as to its former use
is afforded by the representations on the walls, which depict the
king offering the first fruits of the fields, plants, flowers, and fruits,
to Hathor and her fellowndivinities. Several times in the accentpanying inscriptions Hathor is extolled as'she who produces all
things','the nourishment-giving,'she who provides food and drink,
from whom everything comes that heaven bestows or the earth
brings forth'. From these representations and inscriptions it may
safely be concluded that this room was specially dedicated to the
great { lather es the deity who bestowed life and created and preserved all things, and that the offerings intended for Katha: were
placed here on her festal day,
Q D

'0' ©
357-4115, he.'the inner central room', or the Middle Room, probably
because it lay between Hall D and the E. side-entrance of the
temple, which opened into this room (Comp p. 89, Room xm, on
the opposite side. From the inscriptions we learn that it was used
for the reception of the offerings which were brought into the
temple by the side-entrance It has been mentioned above (p

85) that in a representation in this room (beside the door of exit)
the royal cartonches above the monarch worshipping Hathor have
been filled in with the official name of Augustus, whereas elsewhere
the cartonches are left vacant.

On the opposite (W) side of the hell are the ssiilsrehtunNsrs
xxx, um and arm. The last two appear from their representations
and inscriptions to have been used for precisely the some purposes
as the corresponding chambers on the E. side. The first on, xxx),
however, to the right of the entrance is shown by its adornment





