Temple. DENDERAH. 7. Route. 89



temple. It bears the name he. Slicer Room, and its re
presentations and inscriptions refer almost exclusively to the precious metals and precious stones, or to various kinds of ornaments
for the divine images or other costly templeuutensils made of the
precious materials deposited here. In the doorway the monarch is
represented in the act of entering, and presenting to Katha! a
jewel--casket, which a hieroglyphic inscription at the monarch's feet
states to contain gold, silver, lapis-lazuli, and malachite. The
goddess thanks the prince for his offering, with the words: T bestow
upon thee the mountains to produce for thee stones to be a delight
for all to see'.'

The Monomer. lsscntrrrons adord farther information as to the former
use of this room. The lower marginal inscription, in the half running
from right to left, is as follows:'He has built the Silver Chamber for
the olden one, as a building for eternity, he has adorned it with a multitu e of stones, with all the wonderful gems of the mountains, so as to
use them for all manner of work in me 0016 chamber. These were required to make of them the furnishing there, according to the sacred
prose is for the execution of the work for the Thrice a day (is. for the
court cial ceremonies that took place thrice a day). All the noticeable
game are placed in its interior as the threefold beautiful, on both sides
of the Princess's silver-chamber, which is furnished with its requirements,
according to the precepts of the ancients referring thereto'. The room
here and elsewhere named the Gold Chamber is in the central story of
the temple, and is entered from the W. staircase. In this room, if we
have interpreted the inscriptions Might, were made all kinds of statuettes,
necklaces and bracelets for the sacred images, amulets, and other precious
articles used in the temple-services5 by goldsmith: working according to
strictly prescribed rules and under the immediate control of the high
prism. Possibly, however, such articles were only repaired here.

The lower part of the wall of the silver chamber is decorated
with a representation of considerable geographical importance. At
the farther end, on the wall to the right of the entrance, appears
the emperor entering'a golden necklace set with precious stones' to
Isis, who is accompanied by Horns, and on the opposite wall the
emperor again appears with a similar ornament before Rather and
the aunagod HoruirEamtatri, In each case the monarch is followed
by thirteen men carrying offerings, all of whom are typical representatives of foreign tribes, some from the mountain-districts of
Upper and Lower Nubia, some from the districts lying to the E.
and W. of the Nile valley. The name of the home of each is inscribed over his head, and over the casket or vase which each beam
in his hands appears the name of its contents, among which are
silver, gold, electrum, malachite, lapisulaauli, mineral dye-stuffs,
and other precious products of the mineral kingdom.

The second room on the right or W. (Pl. rm) shares with
Room 11 (p. 88) the name Middle Room, because } tits








