90 Route 7. DENDERAH. Rather

trances, one from Hall D, the other from without. According to
the exterior marginal inscription this was the room set apart for the
lihations, and the door from the outside is named in an inscription
on its exterior,'the portal for the entrance of the priest of the
lihations, with the ewer for the Mistress of the gods'. This room
also has an interesting geographical representation on the lower
part of the wall, in which seven waterudistriots of Lower Egypt,
conducted by the ruler of Lower Egypt, are seen approaching Rather
and Horns. - The third room (Pl. mm) on this side is named in
the marginal inscriptions'the room for the Mistress in the town
of the House of Hathor','the room of the hall that lies behind the
hall of the altar', and'the divine hall of the Golden One, the
daughter of the sun, (lying) on the left side, where the left staircase (is situated }. The chief exit from this more leads into IGUD,
while another smaller door (to the left of the entrance) admits to
a narrow passage communicating at one end with the Hall of the
Altar (Pi, C), and at the other with the Staircase (p. M) leading
hence to the roof. Farther on this passage leads to the LChiefFeatal
_Room' (Pl. XIII; comp. p. M). Mariette included Room nut in
the suite of festal chambers, because it has direct communication
with the festal Hall 11:: and Rooms xiv and xv lying behind the
latter.

Proceeding now in our course through the temple of Rather,
we next enter the central Prosekos Hall, or Hall of the Altar (Pl. 0)



'. it is about



as it is about

45 ft. wide and 18 it. deep. The E. inscription on the external
temple-wall states that the ceremonies of the'offering of the divine
things' (sacrifices) were carved in this room, along with the gods of
the sacrificial altar; and the W. inscription name: it the 6resting-place of the Mistress of the Goddesses'. The inscriptions on the
upper and lower margins afford additional information as to the
.orginal purpose of the room, its decorations, and the festivals celeshrated within it. The upper inscription, in the half running from
right to left, is as follows: We has built the Hall of the Altar for
the Princess adorned with the vulture and the Urmns-wcrown, the
wise goddess. It resembles heaven, with its lord. the sure-god. He
has richly loaded the altar for the revered goddess within it. . The
gods are rented within it, as is seemly; the sacred onerings are
laid at the foot of her throne with the ceremonies appropriate to
the cult of Rather. The names of the gods and the names of the
place are inscribed on one of the walls in it, and the serpentwdeities
of Denderah are likewise recounted within it'. The last sentence
refers to a list beside the door to the sides-room arm, which recounts the names of the temple of Denderah and its chief rooms, the
deities worshipped there along with Hathor, andpthe titles of the



