Temple. DENDERAH. 7. Route. 91

Imam; and priestesses; details by name the sacred ponds, groves,
trees and serpents of the templemenolosnre, and the sacred boats of
Katha: used at the festivals; mentions the day of the chief festival
at Denderah; and concludes with the name of the temple-domains
and that of the territory behind it in the some of Tentyris. The
representations on the walls correspond to the marginal inscriptions.
Thus over the portal by which we enter is a double representation
of the ruler of Egypt. In one case he stands before the altar of
Esther, in the other before that of his, performing the ceremonies
of offering incense and libation. This he does in his capacity as
chief pontiff, as the accompanying inscription implies:'The sun,
the son of the sun (the emperor Augustus), as priest of the incense
('lord at the seat of fragrance'), offering incense to his mother, and
as priest of the libations, holding the vessel of libation'. The rearwall Opposite bears several representations of the monarch express--ing his homage in offerings to Rather, who is accompanied by Home
or'her son Ahi.

The first side-door, to the left of the entrance to Hall C, admits

as:

us to a narrow Ante-room (Pl. syn), named




to.

i an:
Staircascwlioom, in the inscriptions. At the farther and are four
steps, beyond which a door, opening on the right, leads into the
large STAIRCASE HALL, whence an easy stone staircase ascends
straight to the roof. This hall is in complete darkness as it is
roofed over and admits no light from the sides. Another ascent to
the roof is found on the opposite or t side of Hall c, reached by
a door to the right of the entrance to that room, and also by a
smaller approach from Room ram (comp. p. 90). This second
ascent is not by a straight and dark flight of steps, but by a kind
of spiral staircase, with ten rectangular bends to the right, lighted
by means of openings piercing the wall diagonally and widening
towards the interior. The representations and inscriptions in the
ante-rooms to the right and left and on the walls of both staircases
refer exclusively to the entrance to the halls and the ascent of the
staircases on the Great New Year's Festival. On that occasion the
ceremonial procession of the priests with the images of Rather and
her fellow-gods, after completing the circuit of the lower rooms,
ascended to the roof of the temple, in order that'the goddess Hathor might be united with the beams of her father Ra, on this noble
day, the festival day of the beginning of the year'.

The most comprehensive idea of the festival is given by the
representations on the two walls (each about 11511 long )" the
straight East Staircase, which begins from Room rvrr. The left wall
presents us with a view of the procession ascending from the lower
rooms of the temple, so that it is advisable to begin our inspection at
the top of the staircase. An explanatory inscription f 13 lines
closes with the following words:'She comes at herbeantrfnlfestrval,



