92 home 7. DENDERAH. Humor

the festival of the beginning of the year, that her spirit may unite in
the heavens with her father (the sun-god Re). The goddesses ere fertive, the goddesses are joyful, when the right eye unites with the left
eye. She rests on her throne in the place for beholding the sun's
disc, when the bright one unites with the bright one. Her cycle
of gods is at her right hand and at her left; she protects her beloved son, the sun (he. not theisnnmgod but his earthly representative, the reigning king of Upper and Lower Egypt)'. The abovementioned union of the right eye with the left eye, is. of the sun
with the moon, at which the New Year's festival at Benders); took
place, is one of the astronomical epochs of the calendar veiled
in mythological language by the Egyptian priests. We next iris,.
cern upon poles the images of a. jacket and of an ibis, the symbols of Anubis as guide of the dead and of the god Thoth, which are
described in an eight--lined vertical inscription, after which the
explanatory inscription is closed by five more lines, as follows:
'0 Rather, than ascendest the staircase in the town of the doublesweet life, in order to gaze upon thy father on the day ofthe New
Year's festival. Thou betakest thyself to the roof of thy temple in
company with thy cycle of gods. The Bnkenkenn of Benders!) are
before thee, to avert harm from thy path, to purify thy way, to
cleanse thy road from evil, at the double union in the sun's room
on thy temple-roof, whose doors are opened to thee. Thou takes:
thy place on thy throne opposite the sun-god with his beams, at
thy sides thy terrible attendant spirits on the seats of Hathor'a Outlook on the Sun's Disc (a name of the temple of Denderah). Ancestral mother of the gods, thou nnitest thyself with thy father Ra
in thy festal chamber (to. probably the small kiosque-like pavilion
on the roof of the temple)'. The shiatsu-mentioned Bukonkenn
were images borne upon poles .._... small figures of gods and goddesses, sacred animals, and other symbolical objects... which were
carried in front of solemn precession. Then follow representations
of the persons taking part in the procession; the king and queen
of Egypt, and priests and priestesses, some carrying the Buhenkenn
(thirteen in number) or holding the prescribed offerings in their
hands, and some personating didarent gods and goddesses, and wearing masks representing lions, bulls, oxen, etc. Among the latter may
be pointed out the lion-headed person (No. 16 in order), walking
behind the chief master of ceremonies who is chanting a hymn engraved on the tablet in his hand; the priestess (No. 24), hearing
a cow's head as representing the milk-yielding Isis-cow,'who
nourishes the mothers with what comes from her breasts'; and the
two priests (Nos 28, 29) with bulls' heads, representing Apia and
Mnevis, the two sacred halls of Memphis and Heliopolis. The rear
of the procession is brought up by men bearing the sacred shrines
with the divine images. First comes the shrine with the chief image
at Denderah, that of the goddess Esther, then the ten shrines of her






