Temple. DENDERAH. 7. Route. 93

fellow-gods, among whom were three other images of Rather, four of
' Home and one each of Ahi Osiris and Isis. t
The Second Side- Room (Pl 1.11) on the left side of Hall C, is

D $
named in the inscriptions I



'5er tin U%
chamber belonging to the Hall of the Altar'...

marginal inscriptions it is called H H n R Salt tug, interpreted by



Diimiohen as Room of Purification It was probably need in the
preparations for the festival ceremonies that took place in the adjoining Hall of the Altar; and among its inscriptions in honour
of Hathor is one that seems to indicate that the temple at Denderah
is to be regarded as a replica of a celebrated temple of the sun-god
of Heliopolis, of which however no trace now remains. Here a
reference is made to the gilding and painting of the sculptured ornamentation, which are so often mentioned in the inscriptions.
A careful examination of the walls in some of the rooms will still
detect traces here and there of this painting

We now pass through the central portal in the rear-wall of Hall
0 and enter the last of the Proselros Halls This is the Hall of the

I
Cycle of God: (Pi. B), i named in theinscriptions E5
ยง "6 a no as 1 e. 111111111 Hall
[ "3

The whole of the sculptures and inscriptions in this room refer to
Katha: in her capacity as goddess of light who has her seat in the
sun's disc rising from the horizon, and who was as such represented
under the figure of an hawk with a woman's head in the middle of
the disc rising on the sun-mountain. (With this we may compare
the representation of the goddess above the central portal in the
rear-wall, is. above the entrance to the Adytum A.)

The adjoining room to the left On,, xii) is named in the in






l

C 5m x l
Hir iib, or





.J
scriptions 161 is. the Cloth Room or Wardrobe. It was the









repository for the sacred wanting and garments, with which the
images of Hathor and her fellow-gods were adorned at the festivals
celebrated in the temple and sometimes at the great new year's
festival. According to the sculptures and inscriptions the prepared
perfumes were also placed here. One half of the room was devoted
to the garments, the other to the sacred perfumes. Over the latter
presided the divine Manet, previously mentioned among the managers of the manufacture of the incense and anointing oil as one of
the lords of the laboratory (p 88); over the former Hathotep, god
of woven fabrics, with his companion the goddess Tai, held away
The sculptured ornamentation on the walls is also arranged in harmony with this division of the room 1 11





