94 Route 7. DENDERAH. Ham

The opposite side-door on the right side of the hall, leads to
three connected Rooms (PI, xiii, xiv, and XV), which to a certain
extent form a special enclosed sanctuary, within the large temple.
We see here (1) the small temple (Pl. xv, open in front and somewhat higher than the two preceding rooms, and entered by a portal
between two Hathor columns, approached by seven steps; (2) the
unroofed fore-court (Pl xiv), and (3) the small ante-room (PL xiii),
forming a connecting link between the staircase and Room xxiii as

well as between Halls 0 and B. The name Q I is.
.. C"? ® D
Chief Foetal Chamber, is occasional" bestowed upon all three rooms

in the inscriptions, both on account of the preparations here made
for the chief festival at Denderah, the great new year's festival on the
morning of Thoth ist, and on account of the preliminary celebration
before this festival, which was also conducted in this suite of rooms
with great splendour by the priests of Esther,'on the day of the

o
Ni m of the Child in his Cradle' (m T;;; .;; _-:;
g o'

j g g,
the 4th Epagomene or intercalated day, on the night of which the
closing festival of the Egyptian year began Most of the representations and inscriptions refer to these festivals. Besides this common
name each of the three apartments had a special name. No. xv was

Q
called l q q i.c.'Room of the Bright Light', after the large and

[ :3

beautiful painting on the roof. As on the two halves of the ceiling of
Hall E (p. 83), the heavenly vault is here personified as a woman
with pendent arms, the'celestial Nut, the bearer of the light-beam'.
She is here depicted withthe sun rising from her lap, its beams covering the sun-mountain placed in the centre and surrounding with
their splendour the head of Rather, which is represented with

radiating tresses as resting upon the sun-mountain.
The entrance- chamber adjoining the uncovered fore- court
8: ]. xiv), and wording also communication with the W. staircase

91), is indicated by its sculptured ornamentation as a second

treasure- chamber. Like Room uni (p. 88) it was named

a

he. Silver Chamber; and it was also called the'storewroom'. D

We now return to Hall B in order to visit thence the innermost
part of the temple,'the hidden secret chambers', as they are called
in the inscriptions, the rooms of the Select. These consist of the
Adytum, or Help of Helios, occupying the centre, and the 11 side-rooms around it, I to w on the right, van to XI on the left. The
entrances to these are from the corridor a, which surrounds the
Adytum on three sides and is reached from Hell B by the two doors
on the right and left.

The Holy of Helios was the central hall A, which was named





