Temple. DENDERAH. 7. Route. 95

[ :73 tCh
, the'Dwelling of the golden and, or the'Chamber of the
golden-beaming one'---'of the noble--of the beautiful « m--of the
goddess', also'the room of the great throne' -'the repository of
the sacred boat', the'sanctuary'i. Here the lord of Egypt alone
is depicted. He, the living type of the beautiful Home, the son of
the sun, the child of Rather (as the Pharaoh is frequently named
in this temple of Rather), the visible representative of the deity,
and as ruler of Egypt the incorporation of all the temporal interests
of the state, be it was alone, to judge from the representations and
inscriptions, whose sacred person might enter the holy of holies and
in solitude commune with the deity. Only once a year was this
permitted even to him, at the great festival of the New Year. We
here see the monarch opening the door of the sacred cella, closed
with a sealed band of byblos. He breaks the seal and removes the
strip of- byblos (sash tebtn and. other atom), he places his hands in
the two rings on the door and thrusts back the bolts, ascends the
steps leading to the cella, and finally gazes upon the hidden figure
of the goddess, and offers his homage. Other designs exhibit the
monarch performing the prescribed ceremonies of offering incense
before the two sacred boats of Hathor and her companion, Home of
Edfn, and before the boats of Isis and her companion Osiris. The
portable boats (Transfers, to.'the bearers of beauties'), which are
here depicted on the side-walls, formerly stood in Room A, and
held the shrines in which were the sacred images of the deities.
The shrines were carried in solemn processions by the priests,
sometimes without the boats, as e.g. at the new year's festival rev
presented on the staircase (p. 91), and sometimes standing in the
boats.

The Sidc~rooms of the Adytum are, as mentioned above, entered
from corridor d. Behind the Adytum, to the 5., lies No. I, the
Large Chamber, the largest and most sacred of these side-rooms,
The sanctity of this chamber is evidenced by the painting, in which
the king is portrayed exactly as in the Adytum itself, ascending the
steps to the shrine of Rather, breaking the seal, and opening the
doors, grasping the handles in his hands. Noteworthy also are the
representations of the king offering vases of wine to Hathor and
to Ahi, her son, in each case followed by a harp-playing goddess of
the north and of the south. Two other pictures represent Pepi, the
original builder of the temple o, 81), kneeling before Hathor,
bearing Ahi in his hands, and the later builder with a mirror before
the goddess in a double shrine. The inscriptions give the dimensions of these images and state that they were made of gold, so that



i' Mariette recognises only a store-room in this Hall A, and places
the Adytum mper in Room I behind Hall A (Bendértth, Description
scam ls, p. t "








