96 Route 7. DENDERAH. Rather

they were probably preserved in this room or its recesses. The
room is also named the Chief Apartment and the Dwelling of How.
---- - Room 11 is called the Vase Room. The well-sculptures shew
the king offering vases to the goddess. - Room m is the Sistrum
Room, with corresponding representations .: a- ;--ai
of the Restoration of the Body .--Room y is named the Birthplace (triathlon). Here Isis was brought to bed in the form of a
black and red woman. A large representation shows Thoth and
Khnum, and the king and queen before Isis and Nephthys .-Room VI was the Sokar Room, in which Osiris-Soker renewed his
limbs. The adjoining Room vrr also belonged to the worship of
Osiris. It is named Sam taut,'union of the two lands', because,
according to an inscription "the rays of his son unite in it with his
body at the noble new year's festival'.

Room rm, on the right side of the Adytum, was called the
Chamber of Flames. Esther is here represented as the goddess
Sekhet, who exterminates evil with fire ,--Room "is the Throneroom of Re. Here the monarch before Horus transfixes the crocodile
with his lance, symbolizing the slaying of his enemies. m--The first
door on the right side of corridor a admits to Room a, named after
its sculptures the Room of AM (son of Esther), but also Room of
Purifying. ... Room at adjoining is the Room of the Menu Necklace.
A design in the doorway shows the king presenting the necklace
to Hathor.

We have now concluded the survey of the apartments on this
floor. Before ascending to the roof of the temple, we should visit
two of the subterranean chambers which claim attention not only
for their remarkable construction but also for the fresh time of their
paintings.

The temple at Denderah contains no fewer than n Crypts (or
"if we reckon separately the parts of those that are divided),
constructed in the thickness of the temple-walls, and lying both
above and below the level of the templendoor, some isolated, others
in two or three stories. The walls of these are no less richly adorned
with sculpture than the rooms we have already inspected. They were
doubtless used for storing the precious articles and images required
for the temple- services. Their decorations date from the reign of
Ptolemy XIII Auletes (81.432 B.C.), and are therefore older than
the decorations of the temple proper, which were finished under the
Roman emperors from Augustus to Now The arrangement and
entrances of these passages in the different stories are shown in the
small Plans It, m, and w. Some are approached by narrow flights
of steps descending from the temple-pavement and formerly cone
sealed by movable stone-slabs; others we enter by climbing or
creeping through very narrow openings, sometimes low down, sometimes high up close to the roof, but always in the inner wall of the








