Temple. DENDERAH. 7. Route. 97

corresponding temple room. Six of the twelve crypts are beneath
the ground-level, and of these two are in the first hypostyle hall E
(Nos, it and 12 in Pl. n) The entrance to crypt No. 10 is in
Room sum, adjoining Hall D, Of the remaining three subterranean
crypts (Nest 1, 4, 7), the first is only accessible by a flight of steps
descending from crypt No. 2, which lies above it and is entered by
an opening in the wall of Room vrr. The discomforts of the climb
are compensated in this case by the sight of two crypts, the lower
one, the largest of all, consisting of 7 chambers, and the upper one
adorned with representations and inscriptions in unusually good
preservation. No. 4, entered from Room vm, and No. 7, from
Room arv, are closed with doors, which the temple--keeper will open
on request. Good stone stairs lead to both, and no visitor should
fail to visit at least these two crypts. Magnesium wire or a lamp
will be found useful in examining the painted walls, On the staircase leading to No. t occurs a mention of a festival celebrated on the
ith Epagomene day, and within the crypt is a painting of king
Pepi, kneeling and offering a golden statue of Am. All these
statues, whose dimensions are given, were probably kept in the
crypts. Still more important are the inscriptions in crypt No. 9
(mentioned on p. 81), which is entered by a very narrow hole high
up in Room x. The calendar-dates of festivals instituted by Tutmes Ill. (1700 B.0.j are here found. Mention is also made of the
fact that the ancient plan of the temple under Cheops was rel-dis »
covered in the reign of King Pepi (hh Drs).

We now ascend one of the staircases mentioned on p. 91 to
the Temple Roof. Caution must be observed on account of the holes
made in the roof to admit light and air to the rooms below. At the
S.W. angle of the roof stands a small open pavilion, supported by
12 columns, which played an important part during the solemn
procession at the festival of the new year (p. 91). We pass through
this pavilion in passing from the E. staircase to the W. chambers.
The W. staircase, which ascends in successive flights, leads past a
room in the middle story, probably used as a workshop for restoring
and repairing the status and utensils of the temple. Six chambers
on the roof, three on the W. and three on the E., the first in each
case being unroofed, were used in the worship of the slain and risen
Osiris, as curious representations indicate. The second room on
the E. side formerly contained the famous Zodiac of Denderah, now
in the Bibliotheque Nationals at Paris.

Finally a walk round the outside of the temple will be found
interesting. The Inscriptions, so frequently referred to above, which
contain the names and dimensions of the various apartments of the
temple, were laid bare by Prof. Diirnichen in 1876, and after being
copied were again covered up. The projecting lions' heads on the
sides of the building, probably intended to carry off the rain-water,
should be noticed. At the left corner of the rear-wall is a Portrait

BAEDEKER'S Upper Egypt. by 7







