98 Route a. roar. From Knack

of Cleopatra, with the sistrum and the Mona--necklace. Before his
mother stands Ptolemy Kieres, or Caesarion, the son of Caesar, offer-,
ing incense. Both are worshipping Isis and her son Home.

Behind the temple of Hathor is a Temple of Isis, consisting of a
vestibule and three chambers. The unattractive and uninteresting building, which is partly covered with rubbish, owes its origin to the emperor
Augustus. The gate facing the E. bears the Egyptian cartouches of Claudius
and Hero, and two Greek inscriptions on the entablature mention the
2131: year of Tiberius. This gateway marks the limit of the temple area
in this direction; and about 10 min farmer on we reach another gate,
which apparently belonged to another temple-precinct. It bears the cartoncho of Antoninus.

8. From garish. to Thebes (Loner).

47 M. Srnannoar in about 5 hrs. Cook's mail-steamer halts for
2% hrs. at Keneh on Wed. and Sat. mornings on its downward voyage,
and crosses thence to Denderah.

garish, see p. 72. The steamer passes three islands. On the
W. bank lies the village of Bands, with clay-deposits from which
most of the'Keneh pottery' is made (p. 73). Balilis (pl. of Belles,
named after the village), Kills! (pl. of Kalle), and other kinds of jars,
some of considerable size, lie on the banks awaiting shipment.

12% M. (E. bank) gait, the ancient Koptos, nearly opposite
Belles. Though new of no importance, this place was down to the
time of the Khalii's a populous and thriving trading-town.

Even in antiquity a canal, mentioned by Strobe and still
traceable, led from the Nile to the walls of the town, past which the
Canal of Senior (p. 100) now flows, One of the stones of the bridge
is said to bear the name of an Antef (11th Dyan); and there is also
a Greek inscription from the same place, of the 8th year of Trajan
and dedicated to the tricoloured isis. To the S of the town and on
the road leading to the desert are various remains of ancient buildings. One of these is a square pillar of red granite, hearing a
dedication by Tumes m. to Amman Re, and apparently a relic
of a temple built by that monarch. Still farther to the S. is a
narrow passage, with inscriptions of the reign of Cains Caligula,
dedicated to Kbem Ra of Koptos upon his Staircase (comp. p. 178).
The stair-case with M--ascending and "descending steps typifies
the waning and waning moon (comp. p. 86) The boat of Khem,
borne by four priests, is here depicted, and beside it is an address
to the priests of Khem upon his Staircase. The most considerable
relic of antiquity, a fragment of black granite, probably part of
an alum Hes to the S. It comprises an exaltation of Khem, leis,

and fish (eternity) by Ptolemy XIII. Neos Dionysus.

Raptor is mentioned on very early monument! and also by Greeks
and Romans at a late period. Theophrastus, Pansaniaa, Athena's", Pintarch,
Josephus, Ellen, Lucian, Stophanns of Byzantium, Agatharchides, Pliny,
Ammianus Marcellinue, Apnleius, and many other authors, all mention
it, proving the widelympread fame of the city. It was especial } famous
for its commerce. The trade-route, which new leads from R r on the
Red Sea w Keneh formerly ended at K"""', where Jr be received











