all MONETARY SYSTEM.

Venice every alternate Frid. at 2 p. m. for Amend (weather permitting) and Brindisi (arriving on Sam). They leave Brindisi on
Mon. at 2 a.m. (in direct connection with Sun. morning express
from Bologna) and reach Alexandria on Tues. morning (72 hrs. from
Brindisi). Return from Alexandria every alternate Mon at 3 p.111.
Fares from Venice or Antone, Ist cl. lot,, 2nd 01. 71., from Brindisi, M, 61,; return-ticket from Venice to Alexandria valid for
3 months, ill.-------- P. or 0 Steamers also leave Naples every
alternate Set. for Port Sa'id (10L, 7L) and Isms. iliyeh (ML, 81.).

'Omamz Imm' STEAMBBS leave Naples every alternate Sun. at
midnight for Port Sa'id- returning thence every alternate Wednesday.

The steamers of the MESSAGERIES MARITIMES leave Marseilles
every alternate Frid. at 4pm. for Alexandria direct (no longer touching at Naples), arriving on Wed. morning. Return from Alexandria
every alternate Saturday. Fares, ist cl. 210 fronts.

The steamers of the socrsrsl hosuo-RmeazzrNo (Nevigazione
Generals Italians) leave Genoa every Mon. at 9 a.m., touch st Leghorn, Naples (leaving Wed. 7.30 pun.), and Messino, and reach
Alexandria at midnight on Monday. Return from Alexandria every
Sat. at 3 p.m., waiting, however, for the steamer from Massowah.

The NORTH GERMAN LLOYD steamers soil from Genoa every alternate Morn, from Brindisi the following Wed., reaching Port Said
on Saturday. Return from Port said every alternate Saturday.
Fares: from Genoa, ist cl. 400, 2nd o1. 240 marks; from Brindisi,
240 or 175 marks.

The AUSTRIA-HUNGARIAN LLOYD steamers from Trieste to Alexandria now sail via Brindisi, and no longer vit Corfu. Leaving
Trieste every Frid. at midday, they reach Brindisi on Sat. at 9 pam
or sooner, proceed thence on Sun. at 5 sen., and reach Alexandria
on Wed. at 5 am. Fare from Brindisi, ist M. 88. 2nd 01. 50 define
in gold. The'Thalia and'Euterpe' are the best ships on this line;
some of the others are poor. Second-unless passengers have to sleep
in the saloon.

All the steamers new lie beside the quay at Alexandria, so that
landing in small boats, as described in our first volume, has now
become a thing of the past



H.

The information as to the Egyptian monetary system given on
pp. 4, ti of our first vol., has to be supplemented by the statement
that the Egyptian Government has recently issued new silver coins
and some gold coins, and that these new form the only legal ouru
renoy throughout the whole country, where their value is uniform.
The unit of reckoning is still the Piostre (Arabia Ghirsh, plur.
kaah). The Egyptian Pound is divided into 100 piastres or
1000 Milliimes.







