to Thebes. K138. 8. Route. 99

the goods transported hither on camels, or, at an earlier period, on cases,
as is ex many mentioned in the great Harris Papyrus (Ramses m.,
1320 13.0.' The desertoronte to Forte unites with that from hunch at ebKarn before Lahdtah (p. 75). Koptos early became an em orium for many
kinds of goods. Inscriptions of the dih Dyn. are found by t a side of the old
Mile-route to the Red See at the dei Eamdmdt (p. 76). In a tomb at
Benihmn belonging to Ameni, a princely official under the 12th Dym, is
an inscription recording the treasures brought by Antoni to Koptos was the capital of the
fifth name of Upper Egypt, which bore two hawks on its banner. Its

a a
name appears in hieroglyphics as 6 Kent and 5 axes;

in Coptic it is Ref! and Katie; in Greek carer, u m, m. The
Arable Fen corresponds to the Coptic Ken. The deity chic y worshipped
here from a very early period was Khem Min (Vol. L, p. 1%), whose wife
was called Isis, and son Horns. Osiris also had a burial-place here
(Be nub'Gold house'), in which a part of his body (called hub) was
reserved. The book of magic, the search for which is narrated in the

emetic romance of 5mm, was sunk in the Nile at Koptos. A medical
leather-roll found at Koptos, and now in the British Museum, is said to
have been written in the reign of Khut'u or Cheops (4th Dye.) Koptos
was fortified as early as the 12th Dynasty, for the wealthy city and eth
routes leading to it required to be defended against the warlike tribes
who lurked between the Nile and the Arabian mountains, and who, even
under the Roman emperors, were a source of danger. Guards were
especially necessary at this point, for there is no doubt that a considerable
number of thnician merchants had settled in Koptos at a very early
date along with the Egyptians, and were engaged in importing the products
of Arabia, and at a later date even those of India, which were conveyed
rid Arabia to the Egyptian Red Sea ports afterwards called Berenike and
Leukos Limes, and thence across the desert to the Nils. The green
breccia, need for man buildings even under the Romans, was carried
at fiamdmat, on the escrtoronte to Koptos. It is even probe is that
Kebbtown or Knit-town means' lace of the thnicians', for the Phinnicians were named Keft er Knit in Egyptian. Emma and Pliny expressly
state that the population of the town was mixed, containing both Egyptian
and Arabic (is. Semitic) elements. The hieroglyphic name of the town

also occurs with the determinative-sign of the post, which is only used

after the names of foreign places or of places in which foreigner » were
conspicuous. The reports of Pletarch, Emu, eta, concerning the strange
cults at Koptos farther indicate that a considerable Semitic community
dwelt in the town, and was regarded with hostility by their Egyptian
neighbours. Elian's statement that the inhabitants of Koptos worshipped
the crocodile (Seth) and crucified the hawk (Horus) can only refer to those
Seaman The true Egyptians revenged themselves by throwing an see
from a rock (as Plutarch narrates), because Typhon (Beth) was red-haired
and of the colour of an ass. Red-haired men (and many red-haired
Semites are represented on the monuments) were dab ised, and like all
foreigners were stigmatized as'Typhonic'. Many non- gyptians are commemorated at the sides of the trade-route from the Red Sea to Knptos;
name! of Persian kings are nowhere more numerous.

The camp of the Beduina, who hired their camels to the caravans
and escorted them through the desert, must have anciently existed within
the circuit of the town. These Arabs appear to have been the instigators
of a rest insurrection in Upper Egypt, which broke out under Diocletian
in 295 A.D., ml M m use sings ami iteaisruistioa oi Hayley The town
revived somewhat under the Khalifa, but finally decayed with the gradual
transference of the Egyptian trade to the route from page to Keneh
About 7 M. above Koptos, on the E. bank, t, i, ,,, l, r,








