100 Route 8. ids From { mat

steamer station), now an insignificant village, occupying the site of
the ancient Apotliuopolts Peron. According to Abulfeda (11.1331)
this town was second in size only to Fostat (Chiro), and was the
chief centre of the Arabian trade. To-day heaps of mine are the
only remains. A few stones with fragmentary inscriptions have
been built into the houses of the town; and the mosque contains
a basin formed of a single stone, with the name of Ptolemy Philadelphus upon it. A pylon, which stood here 30 years ago but has
new disappeared, bore a Greek inscription, announcing that'Queen
Cleopatra and King Ptolemy, the great gods and Philometors, and
their children dedicated the temple to the god Amelia and to the
deities worshipped along with him'. Ameris is the earlier Horns,
usually identified by the Greeks with Apollo, whence the name of
the town Apollinopolis. The modern name Kile appears to be

66

derived from the Egyptian lf if if Kuhn. Near Smhur tr. hank),

3 M to the S. of Kile, Prisse AU,,, ,,,, discovered the ruins of a
small temple of Isis, in which the Home of Apollinopolis, KhomMin of Koptos, the triad of Thoes, Moth, and Khunsu),
and other gods, were also worshipped. To the E. of Senhur passes
the canal of Senhur e, (p. 68), which begins above Thebes and
extends N. to Keneh. In the 12th cent. 13.0. lids was notorious for
the number of its scorpions. Numerous Christians dwell here and
also in Nakddch, on the W. bank of the Nile, about 3 M. to the S. W.

Nakadeh (mailastation), with numerous dove--coins, a Coptic and a
Roman Catholic church, has old and narrow streets, but presents
a picturesque appearance from the river. The traveller who lands
here neat sunset on a Sunday or festival (recommended) will be
pleasantly surprised to hear the sound of church-bells. The churches
themselves are uninteresting. Great success has attended the
labours of Christian missionaries here and still more in Kile; and
a considerable proportion of the Coptic community (including the
worthy and learned bishop of Kits) have embraced Protestantism.

The missionaries of the United Presbyterian Church of North
America have also had considerable success at Loner, Bench, and
other towns in Upper Egypt, their converts, however, being exclusively from among the Copts, never the Mohammedans.
Demetrius IL, patriarch of the Oopts (11.1870, excommunicated
both the converts and the missionaries. In 1 66 he instigated a
persecution of the proselytes, whom he sought to terrify by fines,
stripes, and imprisonment; and be destroyed the publications of
the missionaries (who have a printing-press of their own) wherever
he could lay hands upon them. The British and American consuls
thereupon interfered energetically on behalf of their fellowbelievers, and now the Coptic Protestants enjoy complete immunity
from every form of religions persecution.





