to Thebes. 1rhiiihanr 8. Route. "H

Between Nahadeh and Laser (E. bank) the Nile makes a bend,
beginning at eduDeufiafc (W. bank), after which we continue in a
S.W. direction. w- Kamdich, a mail steamer station on the W. bank,
formerly possessed extensive plantations of sugar-cane. In 1824 it
was the residence of Shékh Ahmed, and of'Ali Kashef Ahu-Tarbash, who bravely defended it against the insurgents .--On the
E. bank, about 31/2 M, M. from the river, lies the temple of Medomtlt.
The ruins are not without interest, but it is better to visit them
later from Luxor (p. 151) if time permit, than to interrupt the journey so near Thebes.

On the left bank, as we draw mar Thebes, rise high limestone
hills, presenting precipitous sides to the river, from which, however,
they are separated by a strip of fertile land. The right bank is flatter,
and the Arabian hills retreat farther into the distance. Before
reaching the point where the W. chain projects a long curved mass
of rock towards the river, we see to the left first the great obelisk,
and the pylons of the temple of Kamak, half « concealed by palmtreesl When we clear the abrupt profile of the'W. slide and new
formations are visible at its foot, we may catch a distant view of
Laser towards the SE. None of the buildings on the W. bank are
visible until the steamer has ascended as high as Karnak; then first the
Qolossl of Memnon and afterwards the Ramesseum come into view.
The telegraph-posts and wires, which here obtrude themselves upon
the view, seem strangely out of place beside the majestic relics of
Egypt's golden period. As we gradually approach Luxor, we distinguish the flags flying above the white houses on the bank and from the
consular dwellings, and the re'i's applies himself to find a suitable
anchorage beside the other dhahabiyehs, which are always to be
found here. Those who desire to keep by themselves may first halt
on" Laser, lay in provisions and other necessaries, visit Kamak, and
then land on the W. bank. In this case the re'is will probably raise
objections, and the sailors (for whom a sheep should be bought, as
they have tasted no meat ion the voyage) prove mutinous, so that
watchmen will be necessary.

9. Thebes.

Arrival. The three-weeks tourist steamers belt for three days (8th,
9th, and 10th) at Later on the upward journey; the four-weeks steamers
for five days. Travellers by the mail--steamers and by Gene's seventeen
days steamers spend 3-4 days in a hotel. -. The Quay lies in front of the
Laser Hotel Gee below); porters await the arrival of the steamers. Travellers should see that at their luggage is landed and conveyed to the
hotel, and should not quit the quay till this ltr done .--Port Office beside
the Kernel: I Telegraph Office (line via Ferrets) net: the Lunar Hotel.

Hotels. "Lunch Korea, with a fine lar e garden in which several
interesting stones are placed, pens. per day i. or 19fr. in Jan. and Feb,
133. or iGl/fira the rest of the year (bottle of Modes 4%., bottle of beer
2s. dd), cheaper for Egyptologists and those making a stay of some time.
Pension includes morning coffee, lunch about noon, supplied. m t those











