n

102 Route 9. THEBES. Distribution of Time.

making excursions, and a substantial dinner about 6pm. The rooms are
clean but not luxurious. The manager of the hotel, which belongs to
Messrs. Thee. Cook a Son, is M. lower
down on a terrace on the river, also belonging to Keum Cook, with al.milar charges. - Gnssn Horne Tnswrtnmn (Messrs. Gaze a Son), pens.
121., wine from 28.

consular Agents. British and Russian: Ahmed Eficedi, who frequently gives'fantasiyes' (p. 103) and Arabian dinners. American: Ali Herod.
German: Hobart Tcdrus. All the console sell antiquities; best from Todrus.

Distribution of Time. The ruins of the city of the hundred gala are
so huge, so widely scattered, and so profoundly interesting, that at least
5-6 days are necessary to inspect the chief points alone. Those who are
specially interested in Egyptology will of course devote a much longer
time to Thebes; weeks or even months may be spent in a careful study
of its monuments and mum. «--Cook's tourist-programme devotes the
let day to the temple of Seti I. at gurnah and the Tombs of the Kings,
the return being made at the choice of the tourist either direct or over
the hill to Dév e3 < Bahri, the Ramesseum, and the Colossi of Memnon. 2nd day: Temple of Kamak; Luxor in the afternoon. - 3rd day: Ramesseum, Tombs of Shekh'Ahd clwhurnah, Dér el-Med" tneh, Medinet Hahn,
and Colossi of Memnon. Those who are fatigued by the previous encnrsions should at least make an short to proceed to Medinet Habu where
the party lunches (and in the interval visit Dér elvledineh), - A moonlight ride "Kama }: may be taken fat the tonrist's private expense) on
one of the evenings.

Those who are at liberty to arrange their time for themselves will
find the following programme of a Three Boys" Visit convenient.

in: (E. bank). Though visitors are sometimes advised to reserve this, the most gigantic of the monuments, to the
last, it is really desirable to visit Kernel: first of all, before fatigue bu
begun. The traveller who visits Kernels on the first day proceeds then
to view the other lions, with the satisfactory feeling that Thebes has
fulfilled his highest expectations; and he will not fail to take a later
opportunity, by moonlight or at any free time, to return to refresh and
confirm his first impression. Visitors should ride early to Karnak, while
the temple of Laser, easily reached in a few minutes from the dhahabiyeh,
may be reserved for an afternoon-visit.

d day. Cross the river early, visit the Colossi of Monsoon, the
Rsmessenm, Medinet Hahn, and Der el-Medineh, in the morning it possible,
if time permit also one of the tombs in the part of the Hours oils of
Thebes known M Eumet msrrif, and finally some of the Tombs ot Shekh
'Abd eHrttrysh, The view at sunset from this point is of incomparable
beauty and Interest.

3rd day. Cross the river early, visit the temple of Beti I. at Kurdish,
ride to the valley of the Tombs of the Kings (31.1le e1Wu1ill0 with the
famous graves of the Pharaohs, then cross the ridge which divides the
latter from the other valleys of the Necropolis, and visit the terrace-temple
of Dér ei-Bets-i and some of the tombs of erAgastf. A visit to the Tombs
of the Queens may be combined with an expedition to Hedinetnfiabu.
Other less important monuments may be included according to their
situation.

The Four days' programme of Gene's steamers is still better: - Ist
day. Luxor and Karnak. 2nd day. Temple of Bali L, Tombs of the
Kings, Der el-Bahri, and the Ramesseum. 3rd day. Colossi of Hemnon,
Radiant Hahn, Der el-Medineh, and Shéhh'Abd elsliurnah. 4th day. Great
temple of Kernels.

A Five days' visit may be spent as follows. - ist day. Visit the
temple at Laser and the - 2nd day.
On the W. bank, Colossi of hemnon, Medinet Habu; Der el-Hedineh. Brd day. Ramesseum; Tombs of Shehh'Abd el-linrnah; terrace-tom is of
Dér el-Balm'; Duh Abu'1 Neggah. - 5th day. Second v sit in
Karnak; visit to the various side-temples and pylons; excursion to "
mum (p. 151) if desired.





