Antiquities. THERE'S. 9. Route. 103

Other claims upon the traveller's time will he made in Thebes. If he
have paid a visit to one of the consular-agents, he will he invited to a
antnsiyo, and if he have brought good introductions, the fantasiya will
he preceded by a dinner. Among the modern Arabs the word'fautasiya'
is applied to every kind of amusement, from the aimless discharging of
musicals, to the greatest festivity. In the present connection it signifies
an evening party, at which the chief entertainment is the more or less
mum dancing of hired ghawtizi, and which is recommended especially
to gentleman who have not before seen anything of the kind. Chihouks,
cigarettes, coffee, and liqueurs are otl'ered to the guests.

Antiquities. The traveller in Thebes is frequently tempted to purchase
antiquities. Half the population of honor is engaged in traffic with antiquities, and the practice of fabricating scarahsei and other articles
frequently found in tomb: is by no means unknown to the cum ham
Many of the articles offered for sale are so skilfully imitated that even
experts are sometimes in doubt as to their genuineness; the ordinary
traveller seldom or newer mum an authentic s ecimen. Only as many
pleats-es as they ask shillings should ever he 0 ered to the imperialists
hawkers of antiquities at the temples and tombs. Those who desire a
genuine memorial of antiquity should apply to the director of the hotel
or to one of the above-named consular agents. Even in this case, however,
absolute certainty is not attainable; for though honourable traders themselves, the consular again are liable to be deceived in the purchases
they: make. Caution should he observed in the purchase of unopened
Papyrus Ram; for dishonest vendors are in the habit of pasting torn
fragments of papyrus (frequently found in tombs) upon cause so as to
present the appearance of genuine papyrus-rolls. Egyptian antique breezes,
. with artificial rest, are made wholesale in Trieste, Paris, am } Han";
Cairo and honor have the best factories for the fabrication of antiques in
terracotta and carved wood. Valuable and genuine antiques may, however,
still he obtained in honor by those who are prepared to spend money
The prices are high; M. being new charged for a genuine acnramuy
Good and reliable specimens. including papyri, may be obtained from
Mohammed M'hasseb and'Abd el-Megid.

Photographs. Good photographs are produced by A. Boots in Lunar;
but even in 8hepheariPa and other hotels in Cairo, excellent photographs
of Egyptian temples are sold at moderate prices. Those by H. Béchard
are distinguished for artistic taste; those by Sébah are also good. - Photographs of the Royal Mummies (p. 230) about is. G, each.

Guides and Donkeys. A guide is of great assistance in saving time.
The charge is 4-5 fr. per day, or more for a large party. Guides on the
E. bank are not allowed to serve on the W. bank and vice verse. The
following guides may be recommended: On the right hank (for Karnak),
{ loads Ahmed, Sedan, and'Abd sluh'agid: on the left (W.) bank,'AN, who
can take good rubbings; Mohammad'Ali, domed Gorgdr,'Aod alsdfonpdr,
Ismn'tt finish, Khalifeh and his son Selim, Ahmed'Abd er-Raeal, am.

The Business on the E. side of Thebes are good and have good saddles.
To Karnak 1 fr. or 13., and as much more when the traveller is called for or
keeps the use for the day. On the W. side the donkeys, which are much
more heavily worked, are not so good, but they are fairly well saddled.
Charge Sir. per day. The hotels on the E. bank provide donkeys; on
the W. bank they must he ordered beforehand .--Little girls With waters
bottles run after the traveller, especially on the W. bank, keeping up
with the donkeys with tireless agility. One should be selected and mpa'xd
with a few piastres on the return. The attractive mean of these many
children sometimes vividly recall the portraits of Egyptian women of the
time of the Pharaohm

35m. S ortsmen may have an opportunity of shooting a jackal, the
best time an lace being at and after sunset near Bibdn Blleilfik or the
mmesseum u experienced hunter is to he found at the Lunar Hotel,
Hymn" are sometimes shot on the Kernel: side. In March numerous quail
are found here.

Literature. The following are the chief authorities for ancient Thebes:





