104 Route 9. THEBES. Topography.

« ~--Mariette, Kama, Etude1to ographique et archeologique. Leipzig, 1375.
...... Brugsch, .,'., ] E. do Rouge, Etudes dos monuments du
massif do Karnak, in the'Mélanges d Archeologie égypticnne at assyrienne".

On each side of the Nile, here interrupted by three islands,
stretches a wide belt of fertile land, bounded both on the E. and
W. by ranges of hills, displaying a holder and more definite for--motion than is usually the case with the mountains that flank the
river-valley. On the E, the ridge, overtopped by finely shaped
peaks, retires farther from the stream than on the W. The fertile
strip ends as abruptly at the foot of the barren limestonewclid's
as a lawn adjoining a graveluwalk in a garden. Most of the mined temples are situated in the level district and are reached by
the waters of the Nile when the inundations are at their highest,
while the tombs are hewn in the flanks of the hills, where their
dark openings are so numerous, that the E. slope of the Libyan
range might be aptly compared to a piece of cork or to a honeycomb.
Viewed from the river, the site of ancient Thebes presents the appearance of a wide mountain-gin basin or valley richly endowed with
the gifts of never-feiling fertility. Nature here revels in perpetual
youth, while the most enormous edifices ever rented by mortal hand,
though grey, desolate, and succumbing to the common fate of all
human handiwork, yet compel the admiration of posterity for the
wonderful race that has left such mighty memorials of its existence
----------memorials that have indeed been injured but not annihilated in
the flight of thousands of years. The verdant crops and palms which
everywhere cheer the traveller as soon as he has quilted the desert,
the splendid hues that tinge the valley every morning and evening,
the brilliant, unclouded sunshine that bathes every object in the
winter season, and the inspiring feeling that every hour is enriching
the imagination with new and strange pictures, wholly prevents in
Thebes the rise of that melancholy which so often steals over the
mind in presence of the relics of by-gone greatness and of vanished
magnificence.

The various monuments are situated as follows. On the right
(E. bank) risen the Temple of Laser, now occupied by dwellings,
and to the N. are the immense ruins of Karnak, formerly connected
with it. Beyond these monuments lay the streets of ancient Thebes.
Farther to the N. is another extensive temple-site at Medarntt,
which must be regarded as occupying the site of a suburb of Thebes.
On the left CW.) bank was the Necropolis, with vaults in the rock
and many mortuary temples. Each of these had its large caucus
for the priesthood, schools, or libraries. The temples were adjoined
by groves and lakes, and from ancient commercial contracts we
gather that one quarter of the citizen: dwelt here. Nearer the
mountains stood the houses of the embalmcrs, refuges for visitors
to the necropolie, shops for the sale of numerous articles which the
Egyptians were accustomed to bring as offerings to their ancestors,
stables for the sacred animals, and suughtm-hoairepdor thal cattle








