Topography. THEBES. 9. Route. 105

brought to be sacrificed. The landings-place on the other bank, opposite Karnak, was united with the temple of Kurnah by rows of
sphinxes. As the ancient pilgrim continued on his way towards the
N.W. and crossed the hill of the cemetery now called el-Asasif, he
came in sight of the rocky amphitheatre which enclosed the terraced
precincts of the temple of Dér el-WML Northwards from Kumah a
well-made route led to the valley of the Tombs of the Kings, now
called Bibin el-Mulilh, which could also be reached by a shorter
though more fatiguing mountain-path from elwAsasit'. Between the
entrance of the valley of the Kings' Tombs and el-Asastf and close
to the mountain lay the necropolis known as Drab Abu'l Neggah.
Thence following the edge of the fertile strip towards the S W. we
reach the magnificent Ramesseum. Behind rises the mountain-ridge,
The tombs on its E, slope, partly occupied as dwellings by the
fellahin, belong to the village now called Shfkh'Abd s3ltlriiah.
As we gaze down upon the plain from the higher-dying graves, the
Colossi of Memnon are conspicuous in the midst of the fertile belt.
Behind these are the prominent ruins, known as 1'i (im el- Wtin,
rising near the central point of an imaginary line connecting the
Ramesseum with the temple of Medinet Babe, the magnificent
Memnonium of Ramses Ill. Turning from Medinet Helm to the
S.W., we reach a small temple of the Ptolemies; to the N, near
the mountains, lies the valley with the Tombs of the Queens; and
skirting the line of hills to the NEW. we reach the scanty tomb,
remains of Enrnet Murral', to the W. of which lies a valley with
the small but interesting temple of Dér el-Medineh. Two points
are of special value for taking one's bearings. One is the summit
of the mountain lying between el~Asasif and Bibi )" el-MUG; the
other is the door of either of two tombs at Shékh'Abd erAurnah,
One of the tombs, in which Lepsius lived, is known to the guides as
Kasr Lepsius; the other was inhabited by Fibers, who is remembered
by the fellahin as Abu Bales (Father of Patio,

The name Tunas is probably the Greek form of the Egyptian

\T Uahu, with the feminine article t prefixed i. e.

Tnabn TheHellenes, familiar with the name Thebes (Bigger),) which
was home by cities in Bmotia, Attica, Thessaly, Cilicia, near Miletus
in Asia Minor, eta, believed that in Tuabu they had met it once
more. Possibly, however, the name may be derived from the words



a dpt den, which were applied to the temples on the E.

bank at least. Among theGreeks the town was known as Ardenohtg,
a translation of Pa-amen, city of Ammon, also called Diospolis
Megale or Diospolis Magna to distinguish it from Diospolis Par-ya
or Hon (p. 70)

Tho famous capital of Upper Egypt was certainly founded under the ancient empire but whether earlier than the aaaaa i Dyn,





