106 Route a THEBES. History.

of which tombs have been found, is open to question. Hardly any
traces of earlier monuments have been discovered. The earliest
prosperity of Thebes dates from the eclipse of the first flourishing period of Memphis. Previously it was named the southern On,
in distinction to Heliopolis, the northern On. A legend, known
to us, however, only from inscriptions of a later date, narrates that
Osiris was how hem Such a myth can scarcely have been invented
in later times, for from the beginning of the New Empire onwards,
Osiris fell into a position quite subsidiary to the other gods of Thebes,
especially to Ammon-Ra with whom Math and Khunsn formed a
triad. Only in connection with the worship of the dead did Osiris
retain his leading rank. Among goddesses a Hathor seems to have
enjoyed especial honour from the earliest times; and even till a comparatively late date the noose Phathyritcs { the Pathros of the Bible),
of which Thebes was the flourishing capital, wax; mallet } after her the
'Hathor district'. Under the early empire the afterwards gigantic city
was not conspicuous. It is seldom mentioned, and even under the
13th Dym Aoithy-Lyeopovts o, 31) is described as the chief town of
Upper Egypt W hen the Hyksos invadedthe Nile valley, the legitimate
princes, who had ruled from the Mediterranean to the Cataracts, were
driven to the south Hare they reigned during several inglorious
centuries, until llaskenen and King Aahmes (p. asst) arose and under
the banner of Ammon of Thebes expelled the strangers. The succeeding princes, won important victories not only on Egyptian soil but
also in Asia, always fighting under the auspices of Ammon with
whom was joined the Re of Lower Egypt, and who, as we have seen
(Vol. L, p. 138), was speedily placed at the head of all the national
gods. The liberation of the country was directed from Thebes, and that
city continued for centuriesto be the favourite seat of the Pharaohs,
and the reservoir into which flowed the untold treasures erected as
tribute or brought as booty from Asia to Egypt. A large share of this
wealth was bestowed upon Amman. The magnificent and gigantic
temple, erected at this period to the god, is still one of the chief
sights of Thebes. The grandees of the kingdom esteemed it an honour
to become priests of Ammon, the schools beside his temples flourished,
and the kings offered their richest gifts to this god, from whom they
expected a surer fulfilment of their petitions than from any other.
Thus Thebes became the city cinnamon, the No or No-Amon of Scripture and the Diospolis of the Greeks. Victory over foes was the burden
of everyiprayer of the Pharaohs at this culminating period of Thebes,
and the warriors led out by the monarchs were drilled under the eye
of the god. In the introductory remarks on the history of Egypt
mention has already been made of the great warrior-princes who
placed Thebes at the zenith of its fame, and in the description of
the various monuments reference will again he made to them. Here
it may be added that the fame of the huge city early reached the
can; even of the Greeks. In a possibly interpolated passage of the






