History. THEBES. 9. Route. 107

Iliad ox, 379384), Achilles, enraged with Agamemnon, assures
Ulysses that he will never more unite in council or in deed with the
great Atrides:...... .

"Ten times as much, and twenty times were vain; the high pil'd More"

"Of rich lf gem, and it he ransack wide earth for more,"

"Search old Orchestration for gold, and by the fertile stream"

"Where, in Egyptian Thebes, the heaps of precious ingots gleam,"

"The hundred-gated Thebes, where twice ten score in martial state"

"Of valiant men with steeds and care march through each messy gate."

(Blackie's Translation.)
The epithet éuordnuuhos, to.'hundred-gated', here used by

Homer, was also applied by later classical authors to Thebes. Diodorus,
Strobe, Pliny, and Bate of Sinope all make use of it, referring,
however, to the pylons of the temples in the capital of Upper Egypt.
With the rising importance of the god and with the increase of his
wealth, of which they had the disposal, the archpriests of Ammon
gradually grew to regard themselves as the chief persons in the
state; and, after the way had been prepared by a series of weak
princes, they succeeded in usurping the throne and by their rule
prepared the ruin of Egyptian power. From the 20th Dye. onwards,
Thebes began to decay. Ramses HI. indeed adorned the left bank
especially with elaborate buildings; but his immediate successors
did no more than how out for themselves deep and richly carved
graves in the valley of the Kings' Tombs, and the princes of Lower
Egypt who succeeded the priests of Ammon of the 21st Dyn. were
the less able to bestow attention upon Thebes, the more eagerly
they strove to adorn their homes in the Delta with gorgeous structures. Yet even these princes did not wholly abandon Theb "and
they did not omit to inscribe pretentious reports of their mighty
acts on the walls of the temple of Ammon. The armies of the Assyrians penetrated as far as Thebes and plundered it; the Ethiopians
planted their rule here and honoured Amman with buildings and
inscriptions; the princes of the 26th Dye; did for Sal's what the
princes of the 18th and 19th Dyn. had done for the city of Ammon,
but they also paid their homage to the great god of Thebes by
erecting smaller buildings there. The invading army of Cambyses
ascended as far as Upper Egypt, but seems to have done little or
no damage at Thebes. éNectanebns 1., one of the native Egyptian
princes who maintained themselves against the Persians, found
time and means to add a handsome pylon to the templs of Ammon.
Alexander the Greatand the princes of the house of the Lagidae
probably found Thebes still a great though decadent city, and they
assisted to embellish it, as many buildings dating from the period
of the Ptolemiesgstill attest. After the 22nd Dye. the treasures of
Ethiopia had ceased to enrich Thebes; and when the harbour of
Alexandria began to attract to itself the produce of Egypt brought
from the Red Sea to the Nile valley, the vessels of Koptos, with
their lading of Indian and Arabian goods, but seldom found their
way S. to the great city of Ammon. Thebes still remained .Con







