108 Route 9. THEBES. History.

spicuous as a city of temples and priests, but its inhabitants tie--clined in wealth. It may be easily conjectured that these, formerly
the chief among the citizens of Egypt, here but ill the face which
now placed them far behind the Alexandrians. Strangers sat on the
throne of Its, and cared not to take the trouble to visit in person
the remote Diospolis, the coronation-town of the Pharaohs, who
had been accustomed to make a triumphal entry after each victory
and to offer thanks to Amman. The earlier noble Lagidae were succeeded by worthless rulers, whose extravagant tastes forced them
to drain the resources of the Thebe'id and other provinces. Under the gluttonous Euergetes II. and his consort Cleopatra (loose
the Alexandrians rose in revolt and expelled Alexander L, the
king's son. The citizens of the capital of Upper Egypt dared else
to rise in the attempt to win back their lost independence; and
they refused to lay dome their arms even when Ptolemy Soter ll.
(Lathyrus) was recalled from banishment by the Alexandrians and
was universally recognized in Lower Egypt. The army of Lathyrus
besieged the town, whose inhabitants bravely defended themselves
in the huge temples, each of which served as a fortress. Finally,
however, Thebes was stormed; its treasures were plundered and
its venerable monuments terribly mutilated. Thenceforward Thebes
is only mentioned as a goal of inquisitive travellers, who under the
Roman emperors were attracted to the Nile by two monuments in
particular _ the pyramids and the musical colossus of Memnon on
the W. bank at Thebes. Diodorus (60 BAY) and Strobe (24130.)
describe Thebes as it was after the destruction The latter found
only a few relies on each side of the Nile, just as the traveller of
to-day does. An earthquake, no common occurrence in Egypt,
had done more than the hand of the fierce warrior to destroy the
monuments of thousands of years. In 27 or'24 3.0. a convulsion
of this nature wrought such havoc that Eusebius declared, though
not without exaggeration, that the Egyptian Thebes had been
levelled with the ground. In the absence of some such natural
force, we should be tempted to declare that the annihilation of
many parts of the monuments of Thebes must have been a task
only less difficult than their construction. At many points, especially in the temple at Karnak, the injury is plainly to be ascribed
to human hands. The representations, dating from the period of
the Ptolemies, within the second main pylon, to the left as we approach the large hypostyle hall, have been removed with axes or
hammers. Some smaller injuries, especially to the - of the
kings, were due to political reasons, as when Tutmes 111., after he
obtained the sole power, destroyed the cartouches of his too ambitious sister and guardian; others are to be ascribed to the evil habit
of certain Pharaohs of appropriating the monuments of their predecessors by substituting their own names for those of the real
builders; and yet others had religious causes, as when the name of



