East Bank. LUXOR. 10. Route. 109

Seth was obliterated at various epochs. The introduction of Christianity and the edicts of Theodosius were followed by the destruction of many pagan statues and the obliteration of many pagan inscriptions. At all events the new religion and the closing of the
temples dedicated to the ancient gods removed all possibility of
anything being done to preserve the monuments of the Pharaohs.
The Nile, which annually overflowed as far as the temple of Karnak
in particular, and the saline exudations of the soil, wrought harm;
jackals and other animals sought shelter in the subterranean chambers; many tombs, at first occupied by Christian hermits, were converted into peasants' dwellings; Christian churches were erected in
the temple--halls, and houses were built between the columns of the
temple at Luxor. Carefully hewn blocks and slabs were removed
from the monuments, which were used as quarries, and many
limestone details were thrown into the furnace and reduced to
lime. Whither the enormous population of the hundred--gated.
Thebes betooh itself is unknown. A few widelyuscattered villages
alone now represent of the giant city. These have given names to
the various edifices and tombs, whose holy names might only be
uttered with pious awe in the time of the Pharaohs. The ruins of
Thebes remained long forgotten. On the revival of learning classical
students recalled their fame; Pococke rediscovered, described them
and drew them; and finally the publications of the great French
Expedition revealed to astonished Europe how much of the ancient
magnificence of the Pharaohs had survived to our time. Each
succeeding scientific expedition made its longest halt here and
found here its richest rewards. The names of Champollion, Wilkinson, Lepsius, and other Egyptologists are familiar words on the
site of ancient Thebes; and Mariette, who carried on excavations
under the: auspices of the Khedive, must also be mentioned.



A. THE EAST BANK AT THEBES.
10. The Temple of Luzon.

The name of Laser is derived from the Arabic st-Far, ph clJrttrtcr, and means'the castles', having reference to the extensive
temple in which part of the village of Luxor was built, and which
is adjoined by another part. The mosque still stands within the
temple. The house of the British consul, as well as the sewoalled
Irate Fransdvi, and other buildings, which formerly stood here,
have been removed within the last few years, the B. side of the
temple laid free, and the interior cleansed. The chief entrance on
the N., with the pylons and their obelisk: am } on their ancient site,
is also to be thoroughly excavated. Seen from the river, the temple
now presents a highly imposing appearance, previously int tered






