at Thebes. LUXOR. 10. Route. "1

including some of the Ptolemies, placed inscriptions with their
names on the ancient buildings. The PRINCIPAL PYLON is easily
recognized by the obelisk; and colossi at its portal. The visitor who
places himself in front of this perceives at once that rubbish and
earth conceal one-half of the sloping facade which is richly adorned
with carvings and inscriptions new sadly damaged. Like all pylons,
the one before us consists of two truncated pyramids with an entrance-door between them. The latter was 55 ft. in height. The side-u
towers, which rose about 20 it. higher, were crowned with an elegant concave cornice, which has now almost completely disappeared,
and were framed with the astragal. The entrance--door is completely ruined. Under the cornice is a conspicuous Inscription in
large letters, which may be traced also on the architrave of the
peristyle court, wherever it has remained visible and entire. This
inscription contains a dedication, intimating that Ramses H. built
this imposing edifice for his father Ammon-Ra, the king of the
Gods. On each side of the entrance were two monolithic Colossi,
40 ft. in height; the most easterly has disappeared, the three
others are half-buried in rubbish. In front of the central figures,
though not quite symmetrically placed, rose two Obelisk: of pink
granite, one of which (the W.) now adams the Place de la Concorde at Paris. It is to be hoped that a crack, which has been
noticed in the monument from the days of antiquity, will not lead
to its destruction under the influence of a northern climate. This
W. obelisk was smaller than its E. neighbour which is still stand,
ing; and the ancient architects endeavoured to counteract this low
equality by giving the smaller obelisk a higher base than the other,
and placing it a little farther forward. The inscriptions on the
obelisk still standing at Luster are clearly and finely cut in the stone
and are perfectly legible. They name Ramses the Pharaoh, with
many pretentious titles, as the founder of this gorgeous building
erected in honour of Ammon in southern Thebes (Apt res). The
faces of these obelisks, like those of most others, are slightly convex, as the priestly architects observed that a flat surface was apt to
appear concave in a strong light. Details supplied by the French
engineers give a vivid idea of the enormous weight that had tobe
handled in the erection of an obelisk, although the Paris obelisk is
comparatively small; considerably larger obelisks are to be seen at
Karnak. The W. obelisk of Lower is'75 ft. high, its base is 71/2 ft.
square, and its weight is upwards of 212 tons.

The exterior walls of the pylons of nearly every Egyptian temple
are adorned with representations referring to victories granted by
the gods of the sanctuaries to the royal builders. ht Lusor these
representations refer to victories granted by Amman to Ramses 11.
The rich sculpture with which the broad walls of the pylons were
covered has Buttered severely from the hand of time. At several
places the Beliefs en crew, deeply out in the stone are practically








