I 12 Route 10. LUXOR. East Bank

rubbed out. On the left (E.) wing, however, the life-like figure of
the king, shooting arrows from his chariot, and the fine rearing
horses of his chariot, are still clearly to be distinguished. On the
right (W0 wall also a good deal may be made out. The king is here
represented in his camp. He has dismounted from his chariot, which
waits for him, and has seated himself upon his throne. His officers
await his instructions, and farther in the background the troops
rest in their camp. The inscriptions are much injured, but it can
be made out from them that they were graven in the stone chiefly
in honour of Ramses IL's victory over the Kheta (Aramaeans) and
their allies. In the 5th year of the king, on the 9th Payni, the fore
tress of Katesh on the Orontes was stormed. The river and the
contest on its banks are still distinguishable. The Epic of Persians
in 90 vertical lines, covers the lower part of the W. wing and part
of the E. wing; some of it has recently been uncovered, the rest is
still concealed by rubbish. This poem was the national epos, the
Iliad, of the ancient Egyptians. It occurs twice on the E. bank at
Thebes--on the N. side of the pylon at Luxor and on the S. side
of the temple of Karma }; (here also partly concealed by earth } It is
also found, though in a very fragmentary condition, on the N. wall
of the temple of Ramses H. at Abydos (discovered first by Eisenlohr), and in the most complete (hieratic) form in the Papyrus
Haifa (now in the Louvre) and the Papyrus Settles 111. (new in
the British Museum)

The poetic text on the pylons at Luxor is followed by a prose
text, dealing mainly with the arrival of two hostile spies, who gave
out at first that the Kheta had fled into the land of Khirabu (Helm
bon or Aleppo) to the N. of Tnnop, but who on being scourged revealed the real lurking-place of the enemy to the N.W. of Katesh.
The king hastily recalled the Egyptian troops, but too late to prevent his camp being suddenly attached on the S. by the Khan. The
Egyptians were surrounded, and only the personal bravery of the
king secured the final victory. This prose inscription, preserved in
full at the Ramesseum and in the temple of Ahu-Simbel, describes
the same event as the poem of Pentaur, though it dates it a month
later.

The most important and finest episodes according to the restoration
of the text by E. de Rhuge are as follows "Then the miserable and
worthless Kheta with his numerous allies lay hidden behind the fortress
of Katesh His majesty found himself alone (with his servants) The
legion of Amman marched after him, the legion of He passed through
the valley to the S. of the fortress of Shabtun and marched forwards

In the centre was the legion of Fish, supported by the fortress
of Amara, the legion of Sutekh (Seth Ty hon) went upon its way
The king had summoned all the leaders 0 his may, who were in the
valleys of the land of Amour. The miserable and worthless prince of the
Khata was in the midst of his soldiers, and for fear of His Majesty dared
not prepare himself to battle Yet he ordered forward his archers and
his chariots, that were more in number than the sand of the sea shore. Three

men were in each chariot, and they had united themselves with the warriors
of the land of the Kheta, expert with all weapons He remained hidden





