at Thebes. LUXOR. 10. Route. 113

behind the fortress of Katesh. Then they pressed forth on the S. side of
Katesh and mum; the centre of the legion of Re, which was on the
march, and having no warning was unprepared for the battle. The archers
and chariots gave way before them. His Majesty alone had made a halt
to the N. of the fortress Katesh, on the W. bank of the Grantee. News
was brought to His Majesty of what had happened. And behold, the king
rose up like his lather HUM (the god of war); he seized his weapons and
put on his armour, like Baal in his hour. The noble karma that bore his
majesty ('Victory lor" was their name) came forth from the stable
of Ramses, the beloved of Amman, and the king dashed in his attack
into the midst of the miserable Kheta. He was alone and no other was
with him. And as he hastened on before the eyes of those that followed
him, he found himself surrounded by 2600 chariot: of war, (cut off) from
his return by all the warriors of the miserable Kheta and the home
runs peoples that accompanied them; by the people of Arados, Mysis,
and Pisidia (Aratu, Mass, Pidasa). Each of their chariots bore three men,
and they had all united themselves.'No prince was with me no general,
no commander of the archers or chariots. My soldiers have deserted me,
and my knights have fled before them; not one of them has made a stand
to fight by my side" Than spoke his majesty:'Who art than, n father
Amman? does a father forget his son? Have I ever undertaken anything
without thee? Have I not walked and do I not stand over according to
thy words? Never have I tres eased thy commands... What are these
Semites to thee? Amman ten are the godless helpless. Have I not altered
to thee countless sacrifices? Through me thy holy dwelling was filled
with my captives. I have built thee a temple for millions of years, and
I furnish thy store-houses with all my goods I brought the whole
world to thee to enrich thy possessions; dim oxen I sacrificed to thee on
all manner of sweet-smelling wood. I have not failed to make thy fore
court. Stone pylons I erected for thee, and I myself erected the flag-studs
before chum caused obelisks to be brought from Elephants, and it was
I who caused stones of eternal duration to be brought. For thee ships
plough the deep and bring to then the tribute of the nations. Surely a
wretched fate awaits him who resists thy commands, but happiness will
be to him who knows thee. I beseech thee, o father Amman, look upon
me here in the midst of countless peoples who are strange to me. All
madam! have united themselves against me, and I not alone and no one
is with me. My numerous soldiers have deserted me; no one of my
knights looked out upon me when I called them; none of them heard
my voice. But I believe that Amman is of more value to me than a
million of soldiers, than a hundred thousand knights and a hundred
thousand brothers and young sons, even were they gathered together in
one lace. The work of multitudes of men is as nothing, Amman autweig s them all. This have I accomplished, 0 Amman, according to the
counsel of thy mouth, and have not exceeded thy commands. Behold,
I have aid banal" to thee to tile ". My mice
sound to Hermonthis and Amman came at my cry. He gave me his
hand I uttered a cry of joy, and he spoke behind me: "I hasten to thine
aid, 6 Ramses, my son, beloved of Amman. I am with thee" .--In the
farther course of his speech, Amman says: "Not one of them (the foe)
finds his hand to fight, their hearts have vanished from their brush for
fright; their arms have become week. They are no longer able to launch
their arrows, and strength fails them to hold their spears. I thrust them
into the water, so that they fall in like the crocodile. They lie prone, one
upon another, and I spread death in their midst. I will not that one
should look behind him or that another should turn himself. He who
falls there shall not rise again". The king of course, as the apes goes on
to narrate, completely vanquished the deletion allied against him after
hm fighting and after his charioteer himself had lost courage. __, dining:
the prince of the Khan sends a messenger with a letter. His submission
is accepted; and Amman greets the Pharaoh returning in triumph.

' 55W "Mallard by the pylon with its obelisks,
W's Una- W 3








