"4 Route 10. LUXOR. East Bank

cclossi, and the various subsidiary details, is still not unimposing;
and the whole entrance to the temple at Luxor is unusually pieturesque, perhaps on account of the very abundance of small details
which are unrestrainedly placed here side by side with the huge
and dignified..

Beyond the principal pylon was the Smut Peristyle Court (H, A),
which was entirely surrounded by a double row of columns (twelve
pairs on each of the four sides). It measures 185 n. in length and
167 tc in breadth. This hall was at one time completely built up, but
the W. side at least has now been laid bare. The most recent excavations have revealed a portion, dating from Ramses H., on the inner
side of the N.W. wall of the court The architectonic purport of
this portion, which is somewhat lower than the court and has three
clustered columns, is not apparent. Between the inner row of columns on the S. side of the court arrows and shields of Ramses H.
were placed. A mosque situated within this court prevents the encavation of the E. wall, and considerably more the general effect,
Ramses ll. founded the court, but the Ethiopian Sabaho wrote his
name on the portal, while Ptolemy Philopator wrote his on several
of the abaci. On the S. side this court was terminated by a smaller
Pylon, beyond which, though not with the same axis (see above),
is a Colonnade (Fl. B), 58 yds. long, built under the 18th Dynasty.
The last is in tolerably good preservation and contributes essentially
to the dignified appearance of the ruins of Lunar when. viewed from
the river-bank or still more from the island crossed on the way to
visit the monuments of W. Thebes. Seven couples of column,
nearly 42 ft. in height, with calyx-capitals, still support a heavy
architrave above a lofty abacus. The whole was built by Amenhotep m., but King Horus, Soil 1., and. Soil U. have also recorded
their names upon it. The marvellous play of colour shown by this
colonnade with its deep, heavy shadows when the setting sun sheds
a rosy light upon the E. sky, is nowhere excelled. The Second
Peristylo Court (PI, 0) had double rows of columns on its N., E,
and W. sides. These, belonging to the order of sculptured papyrusbud columns, are specially effective as seen from the river-bank.
The court was 48 Pia. long and 55 yds. broad, and ends in a Hypostyle Hall (Pl. D), the roof of which was borne by 32 sculptured
bud-columns arranged in d rows of 8. The two sphiuxes at the en » trance bear the name of Sebekhotep 11. (13th Dye.) This hall was
barely 20 yds. deep and 35 yds. wide, and for some unexplained
reason its E. wall forms an acute angle (instead of a right angle)
with the S. wall of the preceding peristyle court. The Open Space
(PI, E), which we next find, is entered from the river side, and is
specially commended to the traveller's attention. The ancient one
trance to the sanctuarymchambers has here been altered into a kind
of upside ] recess, bounded on the right and left by two granite Cue
rinthlan columns. The court in front of this was used as a church





