mm mm .102

for the accommodation is somewhat limited. Greater care is required.
in the choice of companions for the dbahabiyehwvoyage, for the close
and constant intercourse in rather narrow quarters and for perhaps two months at a time is apt to produce somewhat shamed relation, between those who are not originally sympathetic. The
'dhahabiyeh devil', indeed, is famous in Egypt for causing these
who have embarked as Mantis to disembark as fees. In especial trav-n
ellers with scientific aims should avoid travelling with those who
have no particular interest in the gigantic remains of antiquity, and
who are thus constantly wishing to push on hurriedly from sheer
ennui. In all cases it is prudent to distribute the various cabins
and seats on the diven try lot before starting.., _

A government tax of 100 piss. (me. dot.) is levied upon all visitors to
the monuments of Upper Egypt, to be devoted to the maintenance of such
monuments. The tax may be aid am }. card: admitting to the temples etc.
obtained at the Museum of 0125) or at Cook's or. Game's Qffice.

A, THE STEAMBOAT VOYAGE

The steamers belonging to Messrs. Thomas Cook & Boa (offices,
see p. xv) are the best on the Nile, as well in point of comfort and
cleanliness, as in point of organization and attentive service. Cook's
TOURIST STEAMERS between Cairo and Aswan start every alternate
Tuesday from the middle of November till the end of December,
and every Tuesday from that date until the middle of March, spending 20 days on the voyage to Aswan and back. Extra-at-eta
are also run at the most crowded time; while two special excursions
are organized in the course of the season, allowing four weeks for
the double voyage. The three-weeks service is carried on by the
steamers Remotes the Great, Remotes, Prince Mohammad AH,
Tewfilr, and Prince Abbas, of which the two first are the best. The
fare is 501., or for occupants of the two superior cabins, specially
adapted for invalids, 602. The four-weeks steamer is named Saki;
fare Get. The force include provisions (wine ate. excepted), all
necessary travelliugexpeums, donkeys, Engli eh saddles for ladies,
beam to cross the river, the services of dragomene and guides, and
bakshish to guides. The donkey-boys, however, usually look for
a small bakshish from the traveller, who is also expected to bestow
a gratuity upon the attendants on board the steamer. The tax
levied by the Egyptian Government (see above) is also not included
in the fares. Each traveller is entitled to ship 200563. of personal
luggage not exceeding 2 cubic metres in measurement. A physician
is carried on each steamer, whose services, it required, are paid for
in addition to the fare. A deposit of 105. must be paid on taking
a ticket at Cook's offices in Europe. The name, sex, and nationality
of the passenger must be inserted at the time of booking Tickets
are not transferable except with Messrs. Cook's consent. If a traveeller be prevented by exceptional circumstances from joining the
steamer for which he has booked he may proceed withggthe follpwiug





