at moo. Kaunas. 11.Routc. "5

in later Christian times, and the fine ancient sculptures were com
vered with lime and gammy painted in the early Christian style.

Beyond this space were the series of chambers forming the
Sanctuary, now accessible only from the side next the river. This
is certainly the most ancient part of the temple, and unusually
clearlymout hieroglyphice inform us that it was built by the same
monarch who reared the Colossi of Memnon, he. by Amenhotep m,
The first Room (Pl. F), with four columns, contains a series of representations of homage and sacrifice before Ammon Generator,
and in the chamber to the E. of it (PI. u) are represented the confluement of the mother of the king (Mob sin-us.) and the nursing of
the infant Amenhotep. Beyond Room F is the Holy of Helm (Pi. G).
It is doubtful whether Assyrians or Persians destroyed the original
sanctuary, but at all events after the Macedonians had conquered
Egypt and after the death of Alexander the Great, it was restored
in the name of Alexander 11., for whom Ptolemy Sate: I. ruled
as'satrap'. Alexander boasts in the dedicatory inscription of having restored the work of Amenhotep. The last rooms of this part of
the temple have now also been excavated, and contain various fine
sculptures of the 18th Dynasty. Amman of Thebes, especially in
his ithyphallic form as the productive power, appears everywhere
as the chief deity of the temple, receiving sacrifices and. bestowing
gifts. In the chamber adjoining the last square hall traces have
been found of a staircase ascending to the roof of the temple.

1 ],,

Travellers who arrive at Lunar in the morning should devote the
afternoon to a first visit to Kernels; if they arrive in the evening they
should spend on it the next morning. Karnak is about We hr's. ride from
Luxor; ass 1 in, for the whole day 2 fr. Guides (23.; p. 103), who speak
a little broken English, are useful to save time on a first visit, but they
are not indispensable. The donkey-boys and temple-keepers also speak
broken English. A visit to Kernel: by moonlight is exceedingly attractive,
but travellers are advised not to make it alone, even although there is
nothing to fear from robbers.

Next to the Tombs of the Kings, Kernel: is by far the most interesting part of ancient Thebes. Even under the Pharaohs the group
of temples here was considered the most striking creation of an age
peculiarly famous for architectural achievements. Centuries have
here destroyed much, yet there is no other building in the world
that can match the dimensions of the temple of Ammon at Karnah.
The brilliant life that once enlivened these halls with colour and
sound has long slept in silence beneath the dust. Could it be rv
called by some magician's wand it would present to the beholder a
dazzling and bewildering scene of unique splendour; but it may
be questioned whether the admiration and interest commanded by
the temple in its uninjured and frequented days could equal the
pure enjoyment which is awakened in the breast of theflspympathotic

' r: 911;: are







