f 16 Route 1 I. KARNAK. East Bank

beholder by the building new, ruined but with its whole plan and
theory still clear and intelligible. There is nothing new to distract
the eye from the lines and forms of the temple; and the pomp of
banners and the clouds of incense are replaced by the magic of
dignified antiquity. Amidst these hoary ruins, we realize the shortness of our mortal span and recognize the evanescence of human
greatness and splendour.

Starting from the great pylon of the temple of Luxor, we proceed to the E., then follow the street with the 01-001; shops, and
leaving the houses of the ghawazi and the hill with the tomb of
the shekh to the right, hold towards the N. We soon arrive at the
first ruins of Karnak, and finally, if we have followed the W. route,
reach an imposing row of Kriosphiuaes, i.e. Sphinxes with the hedies of lions and the heads of rams. Nest this point, to' the S. of
the temple, are two almost parallel Processioncl Avenues flanked
with sphinxes, one uniting the temple of Math (p. 148) with the
S. pylons (p. 147), the other leading from the temple of Later to
the temple of KhunsMp. 148). These two avenues were connected
with each other by a third cross-avenue of sphinxes. We follow
the left (W) avenue, the flanking Sphinxes of which my canal in
the grand style and are placed close to each other. Between the legs
of each is a statnette with the name of Amenhotep III. (Its-memoir).
This leads us to the handsome but almost too slender Pylon XII,
erected by Ptolemy 1H. Euergetes L, with a winged sun-disc in the
easement, with boldly-spread pinions. In the time of the Lagidae
additional pylons, corresponding to this one, were placed at the extreme corners of the temple. That on the N. side (p. 143) is still in
admirable preservation. Inside the portal Euergetes is represented
in Egyptian style though clad in Greek costume. To the right of
the lowest representation on the left side, the king appears sacrificing to Khunsn. Between these are the hawk of Home, the vulture of Nekheb, and the ibis of Thoth, which are also represented
flying, to bear to the world intelligence of the battles, victories, and
wisdom of the prince. The inscriptions record that this pylon was
dedicated to Khunsn of Thebes. Another avenue of sphinres
follows, beyond which rises the Temple of Kinsmen (Pl. YO, a handsome building on which, however, we now bestow only a passing
glance (camp. F 148). About 200 paces towards the W. bring us
to the First'Main Pylon (el-béb cl-kebir), which faces the river. We
here begin our description of the temple.

I. The Great Temple of Ammon.
a. General View. The First Kain Pylon.
As we stand before the in pylons of the largest group of
buildings at Kern ah, we may caste glance at the rows of Krioephinnes
which led from the temple-portal to the Nile. Boat eon












