i



as no)' { 3 Q €352 $ 3

Li

KARNAK. 11. Route. ".7



moved the long processions which left the temple of Ammon to visit
the W. parts of Thebes. State-barges, glittering with gold and
brilliant colours, waited here to receive the priests and the sacred
images. On the river-steps were ranged choirs, which, at least on
the five great festival days of Amman, greeted the pilgrims from the
opposite bank with songs. The ancient constructions on the banks
have long been washed away. In January and February, the months
in which most travellers visit Karnak, the stream is only 100-200
paces from the procession--avenue; while during the inundation the
water penetrates into the interior of the temple, which in ancient
times it was prevented from doing by huge embankments item"
see H. constructed this route to the river, yet most of the Krinsphinxes that adorn it have statuettes of Seti H. Merenptah
between their legs, and two small broken obelisks also hear the
name of ati who rel ed towards the close of the 19th Dynasty.
In 1883 a small temp o with the name of king Psammuthis, of the

29th Dyn., was discovered at the S.W. corner of the pylon to
i the right.

The "Tint Main Pylon (PI, I) is of enormous size. It is still
124 yds. wide, with walls 18 ft. thick and 1421/2 ft. high. This
gigantic portal, which probably dates from the Ptolemies, although
no record of the fact is known, is destitute of inscriptions. Possibly
it was covered with stucco and adorned with paintings, as its decoration with reliefs would have demanded enormous toil and time.
No one should omit to make the 3" decent of this pylon. This may
be done most easily, and without any danger or special difficulty,
on the N. side, till we are about half way up, and thence by means
of a steep and narrow stair in the interior. The top is so broad that
even those who are subject to giddiness need not fear to trust themselves upon it. After enjoying the extraordinary view of the immense
ruins from this point of vantage, it is useful and interesting to seek
to identify, with the aid of the accompanying plan, the various col »
umns, obelisks, and pillars which at first present themselves in
apparently inextricable confusion. This is comparatively easy as
regards the nearer (W.) portion of the temple; but the more distant
portions, from among which obelisks tower, are partly out of sight,
and are partly so foreshortened by distance, that they appear to
form one confused system of mine. The view by moonlight is indescribably tine. But on the whole the result is a general though"

inefraeeable impression, rather than a clear idea of the arrangement
of the various parts of the building. The latter is only to be obtained
by wandering, plan in hand, through the mine. It must, however,
never be forgotten that the temple of Karnak, so far from having
one single uniform plan, grew up gradually, and that many of its
parts owe their character not to any artistic calculation, but to
such accidental considerations as the space at the disposal of the
architect, the means and length of life of the builds; ad the like. I






