118 Ram If. East Bank

The building is at once a temple of the gods and a temple of fame;
dedicated'e toutes les gloires' of the empire of the Pharaohs, it was
compelled to receive additions, often in most unsuitable placess
whenever it was the will of the king to recognize the favours of
Ammon by new buildings which should record for posterity what
the god had done for him, and through him for Egypt.

Before we enter the peristyle court, an inscription on the door of the
pylon. to our right as we enter, merits notice. rum was placed here by
the "vault: who accompanied the army of Napoleon to Egypt, and records
the latitude and longitude of the chief temples of the Pharaohs, as cal-n
saluted by them.

République Francoise. An VIII. Geographic dos monuments.









Temples Longitude Latitude

Benders C'.. "ties Lesser.. son 19 19 25° to to
Beach...... . 30° id 19 25" d9 39
Enron...... 90° 33 a 25° 9 O
Ombos...... 90° 38 39 24° 28 0
Syene...... 30" 3d 19 24° 8 6.
Isle Philae.... Kr awe 2V 34.5

This monument of enticing and successful diligence deserves to be
greeted with respect; it contrasts with the steerable taste of the idle
tourists who have scribbled over and defaced inscriptions within the
temple, with their own insignificant names. Opposite the French table
an Italian learned society (Feb. 9, 1841) have erected another showing
the variation of the compass filets1inazione deli' ago magnetite) as 1096'.
The inscription is signed'Harina genio" etc.

b. The Great Peristyle Court and its Additions.

The great'Periatrie Court (Pi. A) is believed by important
authorities to have been built by the rulers of the 22nd Dynasty.
The oldest part of the temple is the sanctuary (p. 134), situated
much farther to the E. Probably the clearest view of the growth
and historical development of the great house of Ammon would be
obtained by beginning there and thence visiting the later portions
in the order of their erection; but in following out this plan we
should be obliged to diverge irregularly hither and thither from the
main lines, and so would miss much of the effect designed by the
builders. The influence of the god was supposed to radiate from
within outwards; while the procession of his adorers advanced slowly
towards Amman from without inwards. The sanctuary was the dual,
unapproacheble goal of the pious, few of whom were permitted to
penetrate farther than the peristyle court The hypestyle hall was
indeed open to certain privileged worshippers, but only the'initiated' were allowed to approach any nearer to the holy of holies. That
sacred chamber itself might only be entered by the high-priest and
the Ring, the representative of the god upon earth. The arrangement of the peristyle and succeeding chambers indicate in the
clearest manner the nature of the services celebrated within than.






