at Therm KARNAK. l 1. Route. "9

The Architectonic Features of the court must be noticed before we
proceed to examine its uses. It is 275 ft. wide,
and covers an area of 9755 sq.yds. On each side a kind of colonnade
or stoa is formed by a row of columns and the exterior wall. Eighteen
columns still stand on the left side, but the row on the right was interrupted by Ramses m, who has here placed atemple (Pl. 0), projecting considerably beyond the S. wall, and at right angles to it. Both
rows of columns are unsculptured. Another small temple (Pi. B) was
built in the NE. angle of the court by Seti II. Merenptah. Both
of these smaller temples are later additions, with no reference to the
purpose of the court, and they interfere with the cheat designed by
the original builder. The double row of huge columns in front of
the doorway of the second pylon was, on the other hand, part of the
original plan. The lofty shafts, which were terminated by calyx »
capitals of gigantic proportions, taper towards the top, and contract
rapidly immediately above the convex bases on which they stand.
The calyx of the capitals was surrounded with petals, from amidst
which slender marsh-plants sprang. In the centre of each was a
cubical abacus, serving as a pedestal for an image of a god. Mariette
conjectured that a small hypaethral temple (like that at Philae) stood
in front of the second pylon, and that not only was there an additional (sixth) pair of columns adjoining the others but that the
vaulting of the whole was rendered possible by two central columns
between the pairs at each end which are about 36 ft. apart. As,
however, there is not the faintest trace of these conjectural six
columns, it is perhaps more probable that this colonnade represents a processional or triumphed avenue, formerly covered only
by a velarium, and that the continuation of it is to be recognized
in the elevated central row of columns in the hypostyle hall (p. 126).
Of the original columns only fire can now be traced on the left
side, and one on the right, close to the second pylon, which terrain
notes the peristyle on the E. Three still show about 1/3 of the
original height, one about 1/4, and another about 1/2; the only Complete column is on the right Upon this last Psammetikh L, of the
26th Dym, has placed his name over that of the Ethiopian Taharka,
of the 25th Dyan; above, on the abacus, is the name of Ptolemy IV.
Philopator, which also appears on the recently excavated base of
one of the broken columns. The shaft is composed of 36 courses of
carefully hewn stone, the capital of 5 courses. The height is 69 it;
the greatest breadth of the capital id it, the circumference at the
top 49 ft. m The above-mentioned second pylon, on the E. side of
the court, is mostly in ruins. Before the doorway is an antechamber (Pl. b), the entrance to which was flanked by two statues of
Ramses H. The figure on the left side has fallen down; that on
the right, broken at the top, displays excellent workmanship,
especially to the legs, and recalls the Deed alien figures of the earliest
periods of Greek am








