120 Route M, KARNAK. can Bank

We may mention here in anticipation that the roof of the following hypostyle hall was supported by a perfect forest of papyrus-bud
columns, through the midst of which a broad passage was marked
by calyx-columns, closely resembling the detached pairs of columns
in the first court (comp. p. 120 At this point we first obtain a
clear idea of the arrangement of this portion of the temple, and the
same remark applies also to all the rooms between it and the sum »
mary. It should also be remembered that the number of those
privileged to follow and behold the procession gradually decreased
from room to room as the sanctuary was approached.' Headed by
the king or chief priest, the crowd of priests, bearing the standards,
symbols, and images of the gods, passed through the doorway of the
first pylon into the peristyle court. The double row of calyx: capitals served at once to indicate their passage and to mark the
limits beyond which the pious spectators must not press. The
sacred procession rolled on slowly beneath the shade of the velarium
and entered the hypostyle hall through the second pylon. Many of
those who were permitted to enter the first court had there to quit
the procession and to take up their positions to the right and left
of the calyx--columns. Others again were not permitted to advance
farther than the hypostyle, and so with each room until the sauce
tuary was reached. To this day the clearly defined passage thither
may be traced, and it will be observed that at each successive stage
the place appointed for those who had to quit the procession is
smaller than the preceding.

LATER. Anm'nome IN run Cover.

1. The Small Temple of Suit H. Herenptah (Pi. B), in the
NE. angle of the court, to our left as we enter by the first pylon.
This building, which has only recently been made partly accessible,
is built of grey sandstone, except beside the three doors, where a
reddish quartzose sandstone thus been used. The figure of the god
Seth has everywhere been erased from the name of the builder. Only
a small portion of the walls is entirely sculptured; and the representations that are still extent show that the temple was dedicated
to the Theban triad, Amman, Math, and Khunsn. In the chamber
entered by the W. (left) door appears the sacred boat of the goddess
Moth, to whom Seti Merenptah, accompanied by his son, odors a
lihmom The richly dressed boy is called'royal prince' and'heir
to the crown'. Adjacent is the figure" of the helmeted Pharaoh,
presenting the image of the goddess of truth to Amman and Khnnsn.

2. The Temple of m. CPI, m, dedicated to Amman,
interrupting the S wall of the peristyle court.

The great mars-is Prepares, which is chiefly concerned with the erection
and equipment of temples. damn no fewer than six buildings and five
estates in the vicinity of Thebes, distinguished by the terms Hat (temple),

Pa (house), Henmenu (pasture), adding after each one of the two names
of the king and frequently also an additional name, assigns'thy history







