at Thebes. KARNAK. 1:. Route. 12t

man makes: man; for all eternity'. The personnel assigned to these
foundations is reckoned at 88,486 individuals, of which 62,626 belonged
to the largest temple (at Medinetwliabnl. The abovewmentioned Temple c.
bore the name For Ram" bat an (House of Ramses, prince of Heliopolis)
and had 2623 priests and attendants.

The building is in form a complete temple, but in view of the
enormous dimensions of its surroundings can claim only the character of a chapel. Its total length is "'0 it. The Pylon with the
entrance door is much injured, especially at the top. Beyond it is a
Paristyic Chart (Pl. a), with eight Osiris-pillare on each side, and
at the and four caryatide pillars forming a Passage (Pl. n, whence a
door leads to a small Hypostyic (PL 7), with eight papyrus-bud capitals. Finally some the chambers of the Sanctuary (Pl. h). Sculpture is not wanting in this temple, which owes its origin to the
wealthy founder of the Memnonium at Medinet Habu (p. 174).
This most lavish of Egyptian kings had already founded within the
limits of the temple of Ammon the temple of Khunsu (p. 148) as a
worthy symbol of his liberality to the gods; and that fact explains
the comparative smallness of the temple before us. The exterior of
the pylons was adorned with representations expressing the gratitude
of the Pharaoh to the god for victory in battle. On the Left Wing

(E) Ramses 1H,, wearing the crown of Upper Egypt 4 holds a

band of prisoners by the hair and raises his sword for a blow which
must strike off all their heads at once. Amman, standing in front of
him, hands him the sword of victory, and delivers to him chained
together the representatives of the vanquished peoples, who appear
in three rows. In the first two rows are the compared nations of the
south, in the third row those of the north. On the Right Wing are
similar representations, the king here wearing the now of Lower

Egypt V. In the doorway, Ramses HI. receives from Amman

the symbol of life, etc. On the right side-wall of the pylons are
representations of battles and captives, which were concealed by
the colonnade, a conclusive proof that the circumference of the court
cannot date from Ramses H,

In the peristyle court WI, a) the following inscri tion occurs on the
architrave of the caryatid passage on the right. (e omit the lengthy
introductory titles of the king.)'Ramees, king of Upper and Lower Egypt,
prince of Heliopolis (he. Ramses mo, the living and benefloent god, who
resembles he that lightens the world with his beams on the E. and W.
horizon, the lord of beams, like the sun's disc in the heavens. Men extol
him, when they behold Ramses 111., the king of Upper and Lower Egypt,
the son of the sun. the lord of the diadems, Ramses the prince of Heliopolis, who built this monument for his father Ammon-its, the king of
the gods. He erected anew (m meet) the building known as Pa Ramses
hak an (princes of Heliopolis), as a house for Amman, of whitened well"
hewn stone, finishing it with everlasting work". The inscription (injured)
goes on to describe the king as a darling of Ammon, a victory-bringing
Horus, who is as rich in years as Turn, a king and protector of Egypt,
who overthrow, the alien peoples, etc.





