122 Route H. KARNAK. East Bank

The lower pane, especially in the sanctuarywchambers, are covered
with rubbish. A long List of Offerings on the left (E) exterior
wall is of some interest. It records that Ramses m, in the month
Payni in the 16th year of his reign, deemed that gifts for his tether
Amman-Ra, the king of the gods, should be laid upon the silver
altar, such as provisions, sacrificial cakes, etc. Then follow some
details (injured) as to the amount of the otterings.

3. The Portions dos Bnbastitee (Portico ofthc Bubastitcs; PL a),
so called by Champollion, is the part of the court between the left
(E) wall of the temple just described and the S. part (is. the farthest to the right) of the second pylon. This space, only 43 ft. wide,
had a door admitting to the temple from the 8., and is to be regarded
as the E. and of the colonnade which lined the S. wall of the court.
Two unseu1pturei1 1yspyrusr-bud columns divide it from the rest
of the court. Numerous inscriptions dating from the 22nd Dyna,
which originated in Bubastis, cover the walls, and contain important materiel for the history of that period. This dynasty succeeded
the inglorious line of priest-kings, who seized the throne of Thebes
after the seIf-indulgent rulers of the 20th dynasty. Their names
are rather Semitic than Egyptian, a circumstance that need cause
no surprise when we remember that Bubastis is named as their
home, a city in the E. part of the Delta which was settled by Semitic
tribes. As their names appear to be of Aramaic origin it is not
impossible that they were placed upon the throne of the Pharaohs
by the Assyrian conquerors who are mentioned in the cuneiform
inscriptions of Mesopotamia, though the Egyptian hieroglyphics
ignore them. Like their predecessors of the 21st Dye, they retained
the chief priesthood in their own control, apparently by committing
this office to their heirs. In the hall in which we now are the
king appears several times with the crown-prince, who is named
'flrst prophet of Ammon-Ru'; and the crown-prince occurs also
without his father. Sheshenk L probably began the decoration of
the building, for his name appears in the usual place for the tie(titration--inscription, he. on the architrave above the columns. The
names of Osorken I/ and Takelut I. also occur. The lastwnemed
king appears before Amniotic--Ra accompanied by his son Osorkon,
clad in the priestly panther-skin; and Osorkon also occurs alone
offering sacrifice in Amman. 0n the E. wall is a double painting
representing Amman to the right and left, wearing the feathercrown and seated on a throne, while the deceased son of the some
Osorkon approaches in priestly garb to odor sacrifice. Beneath is a
long but unfortunately damaged Inscription, dating from the Nth
year of Takelnt ll., which mentions a remarkable event said to
have occurred in the reign of the father of that prince (probably
Sheshonk IL). The passage in question is not absolutely clear,
but this much may be gathered with certainty, viz. that on the 25th
Mesori in the 15th year of the father of Tekelut II something un





