MLE JOURNEY. xv

steamer if there is a berth free. After that, however, the ticket becomes invalid, without any recourse against Messrs. Cook.

in 188980 Messrs. Cook also organized a MAIL Smmn Snnvwn
between Assidt, the railway terminus, and Assets (4 days up,
3 days down), starting from. Assiiit on Wed. and Sat. mornings in
connection with the ibr-trains lamina mutt ed-Dakrttr on Tues.
and Wid. mornings; and returning from Aswan on Mon. and Thurs.
afternoons in connection with the train leaving Accidt for Bt1ltrb
ei1aoDakrur on Wid, and Men. evenings. The names of the mail-steamers are Cleopatra, Nefertari, dimension, and Hotness. In
1891 n msilvataumex dso geihul every Sat. direct from Cairo via
Assifit to Assets, in some respects to be preferred to the others.
This steamer touches at Benihasan (visit to the tombs), reaches
Assist on Tues. evening, and proceeds thence on Wed. morning (as
above). The fare from Cairo is 235. to decode and back (14 days,
or 18 days if the direct steamer from Cairo be taken) and 201. to
Luxor and back (11 days), including ist cl. fare from Cairo to
Assidt, transfer of baggage at Assidt, provisions on board the
steamers, and 3-4 days' hotel accommodation at Lunar. Incidental
expenses for sight-seeing, donkeys, guides, m. are not included in
those fuss. About 1% day is spent at Assets, and on the return"
voyage 3 hrs. are spent at Edfu and 2% Inn. at Kenethenderah.
Kdm Cmbo, Bench, and Laser are night-stations, and travellers who
desire to visit the temples at these places must do so by torch-slight.
Passengers may also spend additional time at any of the stations on
route continuing their journey by later steamers, and paying the
fare from stage to stage (to Luxor 2.94£.E., to Assets. 51.55.) together
with 103. per day for food on board the steamers. These mailsteamers enable travellers to visit the chief points in Upper Egypt
at a less expenditure of time and money than the tourist steamers.
No one should omit the voyage to Assudn, while Sahhdrah may be
visited from Cairo. The life on board these vessels is often lively;
and the scenes at the numerous landing-placee are frequently
highly entertaining. The mailmsteamers touch at the following
stations: Abotig, chheleh, Ssdfch, Tamed, Meshtch, Tohioh, Mora-n
shah, Shandawin, Sohdg, Akhmim, Mcnshiyeb, Girgeh, Bciidneh,
Abra midsized, & rtth Arman, Fovsbdt, Kass eyucfioiydd, Deshnch,
Kerwin, Nu, Nabddeb, Kamaleh, Loser, Emmi, Ewell, Baseliych,
Edfu, Seba'ah, Kdm Ombo, Dardwi, and Aswan.

Detailed information as to all these steamers as well as ths amubiycha memioned on p. air, will be found in Cook's Programme, pubs
lished annually, ar, post-free, and obtainable at any of Cook's offices:
London, Ludgate Circus; dissections, Place Hehémet All; three, Cook's
Pavilion, next door to Shepheard's Hotel.

The well-equipped steamers of the With Nile Navigation Co.
(managing director, Rostowitstcy) afford another excellent means
of ascending the Nile. Messrs. Henry Gaze & Son (Landfill:
142 Strand; Alexandria, Place de l'Eglise; Beige 0 _ Ite WMP'








