at Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Route. 123

usual happened to the moon, which plunged all Egypt in alarm.
This was probably a lunar eclipse t. In the left wing, on the N.
wall, Amman appears presenting Osorkon I. with the notched
stun of years and the sword of victory; beneath, the king drinks
the milk of life from the breast of Hathor; and adjacent is Georhon as a youth with the crown, to whom Khnum hands the symbol
of life.

Before proceeding on our way towards the sanctuary, we must
inspect a most important historical monument which owes its origin
to Sheshenh l. (the Shishah of the Bible), founder of the dynasty
of the Buhastites. This is on the outside of the 8. Wall of the temple
of Ammon, and is easily found. Issuing from the doorway of the
Portico of the Bubastites, we turn to the left, and immediately find
ourselves in front of this important representation. The massive form
of the king, wearing the double crown, appears brandishing his
weapon over a hand of fees with pointed beards, who raise their arms
in srrpprtcseom Farther to the left is the large figure of Ammon, with
the double feather on his head, grasping in his right hand the sword
of victory and in his left cords binding five rows of captives with n amelabels. Foes with pointed beards kneel before him and beg for mercy
with upliftei hands. The portrait of King Sh eshenk was left unfinished, the outline drawing of the crown being still visible on the stone.
Bis eartouche and the inscriptions placed in his and Ammon's month
are more distinct. Beneath Ammon 3 upon her



head. In her left hand she holds a bow and arrow, in ingot right a
battle-axe and six papyrus cords, which unite the rows of names of
towns, surmounted by busts. These are the names of place: besieged
and captured by Sheshenh in his campaign against Rehoboam, and
we have thus a collateral corroboration of the Biblical narrative, such
as has not been found for any other portion of the Old Testament.

The Biblical passages are as follows: 1 Kings XIV, 25-26:'And it came
to pass in the fifth year of king Behoboam, that Shishak king of Egypt
came up against Jerusalem: And he took away the treasures of the house
of the Lord. and the treasures of the king's house; he even took away
all; and he took away all the shields of gold which Solomon had made',
2nd Chron, 24 a 9:'And it came to pass"came to pass, that, in the fifth year of
Rehoboam, Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem because
they had transgressed against the Lord, With twelve hundred chariots,
and threescore thousand horsemen; and the people were without number

, It ready thus:'In the year etc..... the heavens did not swallow
the moon'. This may possibly refer to the appearance of a new moon
on the night immediately succeeding the last appearance of the old moon,
without the usual intervention of a moonless night _ a phenomenon
which is possible in certain exceptional circumstances. But if, u Comb
win suggests, instead of ,4 }... not, was... a is to be taken, it would read
"In the year etc.... the heavens swallowed the moon", and we should
have a direct mention of a lunar eclipse.





