124 Route 11. KARNAK. East Bank

that came with him out of Egypt; the Lubim, the Sukkiim, and the

EthiOpians. And he took the fenced cities which pertained to Judah, and

came to Jerusalem'. Verse 9 is the same as the above passage
m from Kings. m The conquered people named in the representation are the Ama, Kenna (Nabisco), Monti, and Sakti (sciatica).
Champollion, the great decipherer of hieroglyphics, was the

first to perceive that the names in the inscription belonged to

the above-mentioned ", and. that Sheshenk, "1195
by the Greeks Sesonchis, was identical with the Shishak of the

Bible. The third name in the third row from the top, attracted
his attention especially; it reade'Judah (Jude) Match", and may
(1.3.3., be translated king of Judah Th0 Made of the bum above the
name'labels, with their characteristic Semitic features, are sufm ficient by themselves to prove that only places could be here
signified that were inhabited by peoples related to the Jews. Of
the 120 name-labels only a few can be identified with certainty
with otherwise known names of place; in Palestine, such as

.% Rabbath (last ring of the first row), Taanach, Shunem, Rehab,
1Taphararm, Adullam, Mahanarm, Gibson, Bethufloron, Redomoth, Ajalon (in the second row). Several symbols have re
cently been obliterated by the whitewash used to preserve the
wall, and some of the name-labels have also been destroyed,
as no. Megiddo at the beginning of the third row. The rest of

the inscription », which are couched in the usual emphatic style, give no
farther information as to the campaign.

We return to the peristyle court and proceed to the Second Pylon
CPI, 11). The left or N. side has fallen and the right side is sadly
damaged. The colossi of Ramses w, which guarded the projecting
entrance, have already been mentioned on p. 119. But neither
Ramses 11., as appearances might suggest, nor even his father Seti I.
built this pylon, but the predecessor and father of the latter,
Ramses L, who also planned the hypostyle hall, afterwards adorned
by Seti L and Ramses the Great. The cartenches of Ramses H.
frequently occur sunk instead of being embossed, because they have
been placed on spots previously occupied by the older cartouches
of Ramses I. or ati I. The same is the case on the back of the
N. pylon, whereas on the back of the S. pylon, which was erected
by Ramses 11., his name appears in genuine bae-relief. In the
doorway (P1. c), where the cartonches of Ramses L, Seti L, and
Ramses H. are found, an intervening door was erectedby PtolemyVH.











Philometor (0 3 3) and Ptolemy 1X. Euergetes IL, during

their joint-reign [ 170465 3.0.). The lintel and upper parts of
this latter doorway are wanting, but the jambs are in good preservation, with expressions of homage to Amman and his fellow"
gods. 0n the inner side (to the left) of the earlier doorway appears
Ramses H. kneeling before Amman and receiving the symbol of
kingship. Behind him stands the goddess Math, and Khunsn, with
the moon's disc on his head, conducts Ptolemy WI. Philometor to
behold the god Amman. Probably the representation is a restoration
by Philometor of an older work on the same spot.





