126 Route 11. KABNAK. Em: Bank

they are represented'. Many of the columns are prostrate, others
lean as though on the verge of falling, and architrave and roof «
slabs have either fallen or seem on the point of doing so. Yet the
whole is so wo-pros-l that we never forget that we are in a
colonnaded hall, and the ruinous appearance so far from destroy-v
ing the general impression adds a picturesque charm to it. The
enormous proportions of this structure are perhaps best appreciated,
if we place ourselves in the wide doorway of the second pylon and
look through the double row of huge calyx-columns towards the
sanctuary, ale. towards the E. The magic influence of the place is
fully felt in the morning or evening, or by moonlight, when the
columns cast intense black shadows on each other.

Roof. The processional route (p. 119) was distinguished by
placing on each side of it higher columns than in the rest of the
temple. These higher columns have calyx-capitals, on which rest
cubical abet-i, supporting the massive architraves which run parallel
with the main axis of the temple. Above the architrave another
small erection is visible. The lower columns immediately adjacent
on both sides were connected with this inner row, by erecting upon
them square pillars, separated by windows, and united with each
other by means of a long architrave, above which another smaller
erection is observed. Only one of the windows is now extent, and
that in imperfect preservation. The union of these four rows under
a common roof thus provided a lighted passage, about 78 ft. high
(about 3'2 it. higher than the rest of the hall), through the centre
of the colonnaded hall. The shape of the columns in the outer rows
is shown in Vol. L, p. 18"); the Calyx-capitals of the two inner
rows in Vol. L, p. 165 a.--The Columns are not monolithic, but
are built, like huge wih-towers, of harm stones. The central
rows have smooth sham and enormous calwacapitals with curved
edges. Five bande st the neck of the column fasten the striped
petals and slender water-plants, which, mingled with royal
cartouches and other decorations, cling to the calyx. Each capital
resembles a gigantic goblet. Unfortunately the minuteness of the
ornamentation, especially on the upper parts, is not very suitable
for the huge proportions of the columns. All the columns, both in
the inner and in the outer row, are adorned with the name of
Ramses H. and various embellishments. The shafts in every case
here sunk reliefs (Un ereux'), the former painting in which is still
traceable at places. The inscriptions and representations present,
on the whole, but little variety; but in a few considerable differences may be noted as regards the persons of the gods and the
gifts which they received or bestowed. This is specially the case
with the columns. Those in the first six rows to the N. have,
towards the top, the cartouchs of Soil 1., and farther down that
of Ramses l'V.; the remaining rows have Ramses II. at the top and
Ramses IV. below. Ramses 111., and Ramses W., and Ramses XIII.






