at Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Route. 127

have also recorded their names, sometimes filling in vacant spaces
and sometimes scratching out older names. On the capitals the
cartouches of Ramses H. or of his more immediate successors are
found; on the border of the extreme top of the shaft, this same
Pharoah is usually named king of Upper and Lower Egypt, lord of
both worlds, son of the sun, lord of the Madam », etc. The broader
field beneath exhibits almost universally vertical cartouches, Burn

mounted with the feathers

of gold "On the largest field, still lower, the king appears
twice; once sacrificing to the god, and once with the celestials
offering him emblems, generally symbolizing in some familiar way
one of the higher blessings of life. The simple inscriptio,
each other over and over again. They begin:'I give'lat pal
grant thee', or else mention a visit of the king to the temple. The
carvings and hieroglyphics placed by Ramses H. are much inferior
to those dating from the reign of hisfathcr Seti L, a fact we have
already noticed at Abydos.

By far the most important place among the gods here is filled
by Amman, Math, and Khunsu, the Theban triad (Vol. L, p.138).
At Karnak Amman was conceived of in two capacities, which must
be distinguished from each other; he was in the first place Amman
Generator, in the second place Ammon-IG, the king of the gods.
Amman may be identified by his feather-crown, Khuusu by the
crescent on his head and the lock on his temples, and Math by the
vulture-weep. The other gods that appear with them may be easily
identified with the help of the introduction on the Religion of
Ancient Egypt (Vol. L, p. 124). On the architrave are some clearly
cut inscription, of which a few deviate from the usual formulae.
One of these, dating from Seti L, on the architrave above the budcolumns in the first crossurow to the E. (right), is as follows: We
is a king, mounting his horse like the son of leis (Harm). He is
an archer of a mighty arm and like the (god of war) Menu: & great
wall of brass. He is the protector of his soldiers, when they thirst
in the hollow way, on the day of battle. No opposition is offered
to him from the hundred thousand brave hearts that are united in
one place'. In the inscriptions the king usually boasts of having
erected an eternal and magnificent building in the house of his
father Ammon, of founding festivals, or of offering great treasures.

, and standing upon the symbol





d. The North Exterior Wall of the Hypostyle.

We turn to the left (N.) from the entrance to the Hypostyle Hall,
and in the N. wall, between the 4th and 6th rows of columns from
the pylon, reach a door (Pl. d), through which we pass. The outside of the temple--wall is covered with inscriptions and martial
representations. These begin on the N. part of the E wall of the






