128 Route 11. KARNAK. East Bank

temple, which we reach by proceeding at once to the right (E),
afterwards returning to the N. wall in following the description
below. On the E. Wall the reliefs are in two divisions, an upper
and a lower. The series begins at the top, to the left of the beholder.
Here we see King Seti alighting from his chariot, in a well-wooded
country belonging to the tribes of the Romanian (Armenians) and
Retennn (Syrians). These are compelled to fell trees, which are"
leafy and seem to he tell and slender; and were probably to be used
for ship-building (as Solomon used the trees felled by the people
of Hiram) or for fug-stsifs The physiognomies of the Asiatics are
distinctly characterized. The fortress appearing behind the horse
is named'Katbar to the N. of Hennma'. In the representation below
the king is shown driving in his chariot above the slain. Beside
the horses, which drew the king on state occasions, are their names;
the king's favourite horse is here called'Victory in Thebes'.--The
Terms en pa Kanana, the fortress Kanana, is overcome. This was
Seti's first great exploit, which he performed, as the inscription
informs us, in the first year of his reign, when he overthrew the
Sheen, the Semitic neighbours of Egypt from Zar (Pelusium) to
the fortress of Kanana (Canaan). Wig majesty was towards them
as a furious lion. They were transformed to corpses, hewn down
in their blood within their valleys'. Confused heaps of slain appear
below the fortress (to the left). An Asiatic, with a list, prays with
"praised hands for mercy; several fall pierced with arrows. Only
one escapes from among ten thousand to proclaim in distant lands
the bravery of the king.-We now reach the N. Wall, where also
there is an upper and a lower series of representations In the first
scene (to the extreme left), above, the army has penetrated far
enough to storm the fortress of Ninfia (Nineveh), in the land of the
Chaldaeans. The stream which washes the stronghold is the Tigris.

The inhabitants of the country, who are represented full face somewhat awkwardly and contrary to the usual Egyptian method,
conceal themselves among trees. The king, advancing to the attack
in his chariot (his head and that of his galloping horse have been
broken off) seizes two of them standing in their chariot, and
shoots arrows against the mounted fees. In the adjoining scene
(nearly obliterated) the king is binding captives with his own hand,
and drags others behind his chariot; to the right he appears dragging four captives with him and drawing others in two rows behind
him. A single line inscription between the rows name: these
prisoners the mighty princes of the Retennu (Syrians or Assyrians).
In the representation higher up, beyond a damaged portion of the
wall, the king appears in his chariot, with his right hand raised
and holding in his left his bow and the cords to which other two
rows of prisoners (described as Retennn hart, or Upper Syrians)
are fastened. The scene takes place before the Thebes triad, Amm, Ink, and Khan, to when the king aka mu mu:








