at Thebes. memos. 11. Route. 129

vessels of silver, gold, khesbet (lapisulasuli), and match (malachite.)

In the corresponding scenes in the lower row the king appears in
his chariot (at the left end of the N. wall), with his back turned to
the great ones of the Khan (Syrians) Be drives past several
castles, built by himself, some of them described as water-stations;
beside the lower ones is a small fresh-water lake. In the second
scene the king is shown in his chariot, shooting arrows against his
foes, who are named'Shasu' (Bedtime). Fortified waterwstations
appear here also and a beacon or watch-tower of King Ramenma.

The following representation is one of the most remarkable in
Egypt, for it clearly proves that a kind of Sues Canal, to. a canal
dividing Africa from Egypt, existed as early as the time of Sad. I.
The relief represents the king on his homeward journey. His
spirited horses prance along before the light chariot, which carries
only the Pharoah and the heads of his slain enemies. (The king's
favourite horse is named Ammon gives the sword'.) In his left hand
the king holds the reins and his bow, and in his right the sword of
victory, the scourge, and a number of cords to which pinioned
enemies are fastened. Three of the latter he drags after him, and
three rows of Asiatics fastened together by the neck precede the
horses. The bastions with reservoirs which the procession has to
pass are represented at the foot of the relief, in accordance with the
peculiar Egyptian system of perspective. The desert-station immediately beside the hind boots of the king's horses is called Migdol of
King Ramenma. (Migdol is a Semitic word meaning a fortified tower
generally.) Between the hind and forelegs of the horses appears
another fortress, called the castle of the lions. The train of returns
ing warriors is separated from their Egyptian fatherland by a canal
full of crocodiles. That this is not merely an arm of the Nile is indicated by an inscription above the bridge, to the right, which
names it To tenet, Ce, literally'the cutting'. The crocodiles, which
do not live in salt water, show that this canal was supplied from
the Nile; and the two groups of figures on the farther bank show
that it marked the boundary of Egypt. In the upper group are
priests and grandees, with curious nosegays in their hands, who
await the Pharaoh with low obeisances; in the lower group the
women raise their hands in greeting to the returning king, who
brings with him their husbands and sons. The inscription runs:
'The priests, the great ones, and the princes of Upper and Lower
Egypt approach to welcome the good god (ale. the king) on his return from the Syrian land, with enormous booty. Never has the
like happened since the time of the god', to. probably since the
time of Ra. aM'- The'cutting' which thus divided Asia and Africa
can only be the canal by means of which the early Pharaohs endeavoured to unite the Nile with the Red Sea (camp. Vol. L, p. 427),
the through communication from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean

BAEDEKER's Upper Egypt. 9





