130 Route u. KARNAK. East Bank

being then completed by the Pelusiac arm of the Nile. The canal,
frequently sufiered to fall into disuse, was restored by Nekho (7th
cent. 30.) and at a later period by Darius I. Communication
between the Nile and the Red Sea was maintained even under the
Arabs, but it was afterwards interrupted, and not restored until the
construction of the present fresh-water canal by Lesseps. The
bastions which defended it are those that compelled the Jews during
the Exodus to change their NE. route at Ethan or Etam, ate.the fortified places (Meters), and to turn towards the Red Sea on
the S. The relief, which is gradually becoming more and more
indistinct, deserves careful study. The conqueror of the Semites,
who is here joyfully welcomed as he approaches in his chariot, is
the ancestor of the Pharaoh of the Bible narrative who perished in
the Red Sea.

The victorious monarch next appears, after his arrival at Thebes.
As in the upper representation, he conducts to Amman two rows of
rebellious Asiatic princes, captured in the land of the Retennu, and
presents to the god magnificent vessels.

We have now returned to the door by which we left the hypostyle hall. It is adorned with the name of Ramses the Great.
To the right and left are two colossal companion reliefs, in which
Amman is represented holding several rows of captives by cords, and
presenting the weapons of victory to King Seti, who raises his sword
against a hand of fees whom he holds by the hair. The mums-rings
on both sides refer to the conquered tribes. The legend on the relief
to the left is noteworthy: We smites the great ones of the Anna
Mentau (with the symbols of the shepherds), all the remote regions,
all lands, the Fenekhu (thnicians) of the sea--region, the Sati,
the great circle of the green ocean' (to. the Mediterranean Sea).

We turn next to the representation on the RIGHT (wo SIDE of the
door. To the extreme right, at the corner of Pylon 11., above, we
see the storming of Katesh in the land of Amara (the Amorites).
This is the fortress which offered such serious resistance to the army
of Tutmes ILL, and it was the greatest obstacle to the victorious
progress of the Egyptian army in the wars of Seti and his son
Ramses. The scene is depicted with great vividness. The Aramaic
fees of the king (the Kheta) appear both on foot and in chariots;
and Seti overcomes his foes fighting also on foot and in his chariot.
The fees, who wear curious peaked hoods, bee in wild confusion
The Egyptian artist here shows some appreciation of landscape
effects. A forest region is represented, though somewhat crudely,
with six different kinds of trees and shrubs. A hard of cattle belonging to the Khan, terrified by the approach of the king, By from
their pasture, accompanied by the herdsmen, who toss their arms
in despair. Katesh is taken, and the defenders are thrown from
the walls. This is the only relief that has been preserved in the
upper row.





