at Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Route. 131

In the second row, to the right, the king in his chariot dashes
against the discounted foe, and aims a blow at a hostile leader,
distinguished by a feather. Next the king on foot deals the finishing
blow with his lance to an officer, who has been brought to his knees.
To the left the victorious monarch fares homeward, preceded by
two rows of prisoners, named'N ante en tahil The small figure
behind the chariot is the crown--prince Ramses. Then follows the
presentation of the prisoners, who are called Retennu and Tahennu
(is. crystalwcolcured, white), to Amman, Math, and Khunsu, who
also receive the captured gold and vessels. m Similar representations occupy the lowest row. To the right is the pursuit of the
Khota in their chariots. The inscription above compares the king
to Sutekh and Boat, to a wolf and a lion, that roams through the
by-paths, to a bull that destroys the enemy in their blood. To the
left is the homeward journey. The king leads captives on foot, and
behind him is a chariot containing lettered prisoners, and preceded
by two rows of the same. He brings his captives to the Theban triad,
who are here accompanied by the goddess Mat. There also are Ito--tonne, brought by the king from the land of Kheta'to fill the lordly
palace of Ammon'.

o. The older E. part of the Temple at Amman.
1. From the Hypostyle Hall to the Sanctuary.

We now return to the central row of lofty columns with the
calyx-capitals, and follow it eastwards to Pylon 111., which we pass
through on our way towards the sanctuary, like the more highly privileged worshippers admitted to the temple in early times. This
part of the temple has been terribly destroyed, but enough has been
left standing to afford an idea of the general arrangement. The
picturesque client of the ruinous scene is enhanced by the variety
of artistic forms employed, and by the tall and slender shape of the
largest obelisk in Egypt, rising from the midst of the ruins, and
testifying to the past proud splendour of this truly royal edifice, which
has been ruthlessly trodden under foot by the monotonous cycle of
years and shattered by war and earthquakes....... . The - we
approach to the sanctuary the older are the parts of the temple we
traverse. The inscriptions afford materials for ascertaining the date
of each different portion; while the practised eye will not find it
difficult to support the conclusions thus arrived at by comparison
of the successive styles of art. We here find the polygonal pillar" column and the finely carved bud w columns, bearing clear and unmistakeablo evidence as to the idea, to which this order owed its
origin. The third pylon seems to have marked the limit of the
temple under the early empire, before the gigantic buildings of
the 19th Dyn. were added. The W. side of this pylon, within the
great bypostylemball, still shows the incisions made n the wall








