132 Route 11. Kantian. Em Bank

for the support of the flag-stares. The pylons lying to the S. were
built by the kings of the 18th Dym, and were connected with the side
of the great temple of Ammon, whence they were reached by a door
between Pylon HI and Pylon IV (p. 145).

On the rear of the left side of Pylon m is a long inscription
(unfortunately imperfect at the top), recording the gifts of Amen-u
hotep m. to the god Amman i end to the left is the representation
of several ships, recording a festival voyage instituted by the king
in honour of the god in his nose. The sanctuary existed before the
Hyksos period, certainly under the 12th Dym, and the conquerors
and expellers of the intruders erected in honour of Ammon eucacessire additions, increasing in size as they receded from the
sanctuary.

On passing through the third ruined pylon into the Central
Court (Pl. E), we come first upon two Oneness, of which, however,
one has been destroyed, though Pocoche saw them both Meet in
1738. The standing obelisk (Pl. g) is, like most others, made of
granite from the quarries of Syene (Aswan). It is 76 ft. high and
stands upon a base 6 it, equate. Only the lower portions of the
inscriptions on its faces are seriously injured. The central rows are
in larger and finer hieroglyphics than the side-rows. The former
date from the time of Tutmes L, the latter contain the names of
later appropriate": of this monument. The usual formulae occur in
these inscriptions; Tutmes L, among other titles, is named the
victorywbringing Home, who fulfils the years and enlivens the henna
Be,'the lovely son of the sun, erected this monument in honour of
his father Amman, lord of the throne of the world, who is were
shipped in E. Thebes ('Apet')'. In front of this obelisk are the
remains of a cubical basis, which probably sorted to support a
colossus. The two obelisk: end the colossus marked the entrance to
the temple in the reign of Times I.

Next follows Pylon JV, in such a ruinous condition that its originel form cannot be ascertained. It dates from the time of Tutmes L, who is represented by the Osirisucolnmns attached to its
inner JO side. Only the N. door-pillar is now standing. It bears an

expresssion of homage to Amman from Tutmes TV. (0..

but beneath the arm of the king is a short inscription, in which the
Ethiopian Sahalro records a restoration of the temple by himself.
A similar reference to his campaigns appears in the inscription on
the left side. Setl H. has also placed his name upon this doorway

The doorway closing the fourth pylon on the E. fell during the
inundation of 1865. Beyond its site are a few ruined fragments of
a structure, the original arrangement of whichpis only to be understood on the supposition that five couples of columns stood on the
left and six couples on the right, and that two couple: were removed
from each; side to make room for two imposing Obelilkl Tho






