\
at Tubes. KARNAK. If. Route. 133

Right Obelisk has been overthrown, and the fragments of its shattered
shaft are seen lying scattered around. The top has' some
distance to the N. The'Left Obelisk (Pi. h), still standing, is the
largest obelisk in Egypt. The total height was estimated by the
engineers of Napoleon's expedition at 971/2 It, its diameter at the
base 81/2 ft., its mass 48% cubic ft, and its weight 3673 toned- It
is made of fine red granite, and the inscriptions upon it are among
the finest specimens of the grand style, which flourished at the date
of its erection. Queen Hatasu Khnumtu-Amen, who was regent for
her brother Truman m. during his minority, and who erected this
monument, was a true child of the Egyptian'age of chiralry' which
did not close until the reign ofAmonhotop I'VE, the sun-worshipper.
Her name will frequently be met with again, especially in her
terrace-temple at Der elmbahri (p. 223). She was the half-sister
of two kings (Tutmes IL and Tutmes 111.), and was named
queen by her father Tntmea L, probably because, her mother was
of purer royal blood than the mother of her half-brothers. After
her father's death she reigned in her own name along with Tub
Inna w, whom she married, and on her husband's decease she ruled
on behalf of Tutmes Hi }, who appears also to have been her MMP.
in-law. Masculine in disposition, she carried on important wars
and reared large buildings. The less energetic Tutmee IL yielded
to the guardianship of his sister and wife, but Tutmes 1H. appears
to have early compelled her to relinquish to him the crown of Lower
Egypt After her death be chiselled out in
some places and to be replaced by his own in others--an instance
of the irreverent disfigurement of monuments only too common
in ancient Egypt. Hatasu KhnumtnAmen, the royal Amman,
caused herself to be represented with the ornaments of the male
Pharaohs, and even with a heard. The beautifully carved central
inscription, formerly inlaid with electrum or silver-gilt, contains
her name alone; though she permitted her brother's name to appear
at the sides. Later usurpers have not entirely spared even this noble
monument The side-inscriptions contain short sentences with the
formulae usually employed for the presentation of gifts and the
bestowing of the blessings of His, while the centraluinsoriptions
refer to the dedication of the obelisks. One of the inscriptions is as
follows:'The mistress of the diadems, whose years do not wither
(literally 1'are green or fresh'), the victory-bringing Horus, em, Hamtesu, erected this as a monument to her father Amman, the lord of
the thrones of both lands, while she reared two obelisks to him in
from of the pylon of Ammon Arsaphes, adorned with statues, and
inlaid it with a profusion of electrum (silverwgilt), in order that it
might shine over both lands like the sun's disc. Never since the



t The tallest known obelisk is that in the piazza in front of the Lateran at Rome, which is 105 ft high The other obelisk at items are
smaller than the one in the test.





