134 Route 11. KARNAK. East Bank

creation of the world has anything been made like what has been
erected by the child of the sun Khnumt-Ameu Hatasu, who bestows
life, eternal like the sun'. The queen is uniformly referred to by the
feminine pronoun, though she is represented as a man and named'a
son of the sun'. On the rectangular base of the obelisk it is recorded
(N. side) that the queen erected it in seven months in the 16th and
17th years of her reign, and (E. side) that it was overlaid with gold,
that the queen herself weighed out the necessary gold in sacks and
here, so that (S. side) the people on both banks beheld it glittering
at sunrise. - The obelieks are enclosed by fa rectangular granite
wall, 12-15 ft. in height.

As we proceed towards the R, we pass another Pylon (PL T),
now completely ruined, and enter a Smooth Coaonnann, with Osiristigures representing Tutmea L in each of the spaces to the right
and left are five pairs of columns. Between them was a central
space enclosed by Tutmes, with two of the Osiris-statues embedded
in the well. An inscription informs us that this surrounding wall
was raised by Tutmcs III. to cover the monuments of his father
Tutmee L,'so that the monuments of his father Usertesen (12th
Dyn.) and the monuments of his fathers, kings of Upper and Lower
Egypt, should not be seen in presence of his own'.

On the walls of this narrow room, and on the right and left of
the gateway with granite pillars which forms the opening of Pylon V,
are the namewlabels of the peoples conquered by Tutmes Ill. The
S. peoples are named on the right:'List of the S. lands, of the
Ann Kenos from Khent-hun~nefer, defeated by His Majesty, he
wrought havoc among them, their multitude is not known, he brought
all that belonged to them as living captives to Thebes, to fill the
works-house of Ammon-Ra'. Beneath are lid name-cringe of conquered tribes of the S. lands; first those of Ruth (Ethiopians; the
Bush of Scripture), than those of Punt (Arabians), and lastly the
Libu (Libyans). On the left are the nausea of N. peoples, above
which is an inscription:'List of the tribes of the upper Retennu,
captured by His Majesty in Magda, the miserable place, their
children brought by His Majesty as living captives to the fortified
place in Aptwasu (Thebes) from his first campaign, as commanded
him by Amman, who has led him by good paths'. (Two similar lists
of N. and S. tribes, one of them being still more complete, are to
be found on Pylon VIII, lying to the 8.; camp. p. 146.)

We now traverse a kind of pronaos and enter the Smother!
(PL F), a chamber built of hard granite. The frequent repetition
of the name cfPhilip Aridmus on its walls might lead one at first to
suppose that this apartment is a comparatively recent structure,
dating from the reign of this royal puppet under whom the power
was really wielded by Ptolemy L, son of Lague (Safer). But Philip
is here named only as restorer, not as founder, and certain fragments of statues found farther to the E., afford a pro as we shall








