at Thebes. noun. 1:. Route. 135

see, that a temple must have stood upon this spot even before the
epoch of the Hyksos. Thobuilding of every temple, without exception, began with the construction of the sanctuary; and beyond
doubt, we are here standing in front of the most ancient part of the
entire temple of Ammon. The granite pillars to the right and left,
on which a large'flower-Calyx appears between two smaller ones,
also date from Tutmes 1H. Beyond these pillars and a small antechamber we reach the space usually regarded as the Sanctuary. It is
built entirely of pink granite, and is divided into two chambers, a
very uncommon arrangement, although easily explainedin the present
case (see below). The front chamber, opening to the W., is 19 ft.
long, the hinder one, opening to the K, over 25 it, The roof has
been completely destroyed; and a slab of granite, leaning obliquely
downwards, seems as though on the point of falling. The latter
was adorned with stars, and traces of colour are seen both upon it
and upon the walls; but the sculptures were never fully completed,
and the red outlines which served as a guide to the sculptor may
still be made out here and there. The holes in which the doorhinges were fixed, still show traces of verdigris, a proof that the
hinges were made of copper or bronze.

The entire double-chamber and the pillars at its entrance date
rom the reign of Tutmcs 1H. Mariette believed, probably with
justice, that the actual sanctuary, or at least the original sanctuary
of the 12th Dym, lay behind (to. to the E. of) the granite chamber,
because that would alone axphain the opening at the back of the
chamber. A stole preserved in the museum at Gizeh records that
the temple of Karmic was in existence as early as the close of the
11th Dym, though then of little importance. Wilkinson found the
name of Amenemha l. (12th Dym) on a shattered pedestal to the S.
of the sanctuary; and an inscription of the 21st Dyna, discovered by
E. de Rouge in the southmost court of the temple (in the S.E. angle,
to the right of the entrance by the pillars) contains an announcement
by a certain Amenhotep, chief priest under Ramses IX, that the
sanctuary of the temple of Ammon was built in the time of Usertesen I. and then restored by himself. Two aisles in the quarries of
Maisara near Cairo (Vol. I., p. 405) record that King Aahmes, the
conqueror of the Hyksos, caused stones to be quarried for the
temple of Amman, in the 21st and 22nd year of his reign. At all
events the ancient sanctuary stood near the site of the one new before us, if not actually on the same spot. Tutmes entirely rebuilt
it, providing it with two doors, a peculiarity commented upon
above. The W. entrance must have existed before his time, for
it was turned towards the portions of the temple built by his
ancestors. When Tutmes, however, added the large new structure farther to the E. (p. 138), be connected it with the more ancient holy place, dividing the latter in two and adding a W. doorway, so that it became the goal for the processions from the K, at






