136 Route 11. KARNAK. East Bank

well as from the W., and even for those advancing through the
series of pylons on the S. -it is improbable that Cambyses caused
the destruction of this'heart' of the worship of Amman, if we may
use that expression, and Nectanebus, who was a mighty builder
would certainly have restored it, had it been injured. On the other
hand, nothing is more likely than that one of the later Persian
kings selected this temple for destruction after some abortive insurrection on the part of the Egyptians, in order to punish the rebellious province in its most sensitive part. Ptolemy Sonar, who
held the reins for Philip Aridaeus, could have found no easier way
to win the hearts of his new subjects than to restore the holy places
destroyed by the Persians; while to do so was to imitate Alexander the Great. In this particular case the work was not difficult,
for though now sculptures had to be provided for the adytum, its
want; were for the most part still standing In the dedicationinscription in the interior of the sanctuary, Philip records merely
that he had restored with granite the sanctuary which was falling
to ruin,'which was built in the time of Tutmes UL king of
Upper and Lower Egypt'; and a fragment of the older structure,
bearing on its upper side a representation of Tutmes offering gifts
to Amman Generator, was used as e ceiling-slab in the restoration.

The inscriptions and carvings on the Inner Walls of the first
chamber are neither imposing nor specially interesting. They still
exhibit traces of colour, especially of the blue pigment, which was
lavishly used to make the figures stand out more distinctly from
the reddish stone. Amman in both his main characters (Amman
Generator and Amman king of the gods) receives the homage of
Philip, or rather of the representative of the royal house of Macedon,
for it is certain that Philip never entered the valley of the Nile. Math
of course also appears with Ammo, and once is depicted as
embracing him, an absolutely unique representation. The traveller
will see with surprise in this sacred spot a representation of the
king, under the auspices of Khnum, catching birds with a net, and
promising to bestow his booty upon Amman.

The Exterior Walls of the holy of holies are covered with numerous low reli sis and inscriptions, not easily seen on account of the
smoothness and polish of the granite. On the right side (8.) the
Pharaoh is in one place sprinkled with the water of life by Her Hut
(Vol, L, p. 133) and Thoth, and in another receives from them the
royal crown. Elsewhere we see the boat of Ammon being brought
in solemn procession to the sanctuary, and the king offering four
calves of different colours (perhaps symbolizing the nations of the
four quarters of the globe, over which he watched as shepherd of
the people). The inscription records that Amman-site, the bull (husk
band) of his mother, is highly pleased with the beautiful monument
which Philip has erected to him, and that he promises all kinds of
gm: 3 else menu








