at Weber, KARNAK. 11. Route. 137

timed on this wall; and on the other (N) we see Philip offering
to the god of Thebes at a step-altar. Various names of Upper and
Lower Egypt took place in this ceremony. Mention should be made
of a large flabellnrn or feather-screen, which appears to conceal the
figure of Ammon, to. the hidden, the veiled. This symbolically
indicates that the deeper conception of the essence of the god must
remain hidden from the uninitiated.

Around the sanctuary lay a number of apartments (new all
more or less destroyed) in which later kings, such as Seti IL,
Sheshenk, and the EthiOpians Sabako and Taharka, have inscribed
their names. The last placed their inscriptions open walls which
had been built much earlier, at the latest under Tutmes HI. The
lastunamed great warrior and builder caused a list of his acquisitions through war to be carved near the holy of holies, and this has
proved of the greatest value for the history of his times. Part of
this inscription was taken to Paris; what remains at Kama ]; is
much injured, though still quite legible. It is to be found in the
passage to the N. of the sanctuary (PIA), where it begins at the E.
end, is continued beyond the door, and then at the point where the
wall recedes to the W. First copied by Lepsius, it has been translated by S. Birch and H. Brugsch and several others, but it is too
long to allow of more than an extract being here given.

Statement of the Acquisitions of Trainers III. The first lines below,
half destroyed, contain the royal commands to undertake the placing of
the inscription. In the month Pharmuthi (the day is broken off') of the
22nd year of his reign the first campaign was undertaken, from Ear
(Tania). (The victorious king on his return in the followin year seems
to have got rid of the guardianship of his sister Bataan.) he march of
the Egyptian army lam: at first through well-known towns, as the fortress
of the land of Sharohsnn (Sharon), which begins at Jordan (Jericho? 3, am
Un the in: day of the minim 9mm, in his 23rd year, the king encamped
before the fortress of Guam (831311 and entered it in triumph on the
Mi. He brought the occurred prince thereof to rain, that he might
extend the borders of E ypt according to the commands of his mum
Amman. On the 16th akhon in the same year (23rd) he proceeded
against the fortress them, for the prince of Katesh had marched to Hagda
ar iddo), for the defence of which the princes from the river of Egypt
(w i elw'drish) to Mesopotamia had united themselves together, and
among them the hirer (Syrians) and Kan }. (Gunman. on horseback and
on foot..... There was a choice of two ways, and the king chose that
viii Aalnna (Melon?) On the 19th PakhOn of the 23rd year. the king
encamped before the fortress of dalnna, near which there must have been
a navigable river as Tntmes made use of one. The army proceeded
through the valley of Asians. and at the seventh (is. an auspicious) been
reached the bank of the brook of Kins. (Hanan) to the S. of Megiddo.

Here the king pitched his tent and-delivered an inspiriting speech to
his troops. The festival of the new moon, which was also the anniversary of the coronation, was celebrated on the gist Yakima, The king
mounted his chariot, which was richly adorned with silver gin, and in
his war- harness fresemhling Horus, Monte., the god of battles, and his
father Amman, drew up his troops in two wings and a centre, which he
himself commanded. The battle began in the plain td Mqlddo antlfhe
enemy was defeated. Their horses were taken, and their golden chariots
with silver-Work, etc. The prince of Katesh and the prince of Eegldfio
were drawn np into the fortress by their garments, while











