138 Route 11. KARNAK. East Bank

the Egyptian soldiers fell upon the goods that were left behind. Great
booty was captured, and the slaughtered enemies'ley in heaps, like fish
upon the shore't The hostile camp was taken, and Tutmes built a fort
to restrain the rebellious city. The record of these deeds was inscribed
in a leather-roll and de cause in the temple of Ammon, in the midst of
which we are now stun ing The great ones of the land came to mam.
They brought also corn and wine, ate. The prisoners numbered air,
M severed hands were reckoned up; and hill horses 191 colts, and a bull;
ware mum: The defeated also lost a chariot inlaid with gold, a golden
chariobbox. a chariot beautifully inlaid with gold belonging to one of
the allied princes and 892 war-chariots of their worthless warriors, in
all 921; a beautiful suit of iron man belonging to one of the kings, and
the armour of the King of Megiddo; 200 other suits of armour, 502 bows,
and 7 silver-mounted posts from the royal tent of the enemy ,--The
captured oxen numbered 1929, goats 2000, and sheep 20,500. Other prisoners, including king' sons, were capturer ] in different strong places, and
were led along behind the Pharaoh, to the number of 2303. Syrian me'al
vessels, and other metal-work including wan na. man also among the
booty, to a total weight of 1785: ten (10 bet :2 lies 331/5 on), Of gold and
silver were there were 9% tea and i w. There was also a statue, the
head of which was of gold, ivory, ebony, and sesamewwood (probably cedar),
inlaid with gun The yield of corn was enormous, manning to
$ 3,003 teen (1. tons. m nearly _ bushel) of grain, "besides what was out
down and home of by the soldiers of the king". The other details of the
tribute we omit. - Then follows, probably for the sake of comparison,
a description of the tribute brought to the king in the 40th (24th n year
of his reign from Syria and Assyria (Assur) .--The um mum of the
inscription have been removed and are now in the Louvre, having been
acquired partly by purchase (from the Salt Collection in 1828). and partly
by gift to Prince Napoleon (the portions ra-excavaled by Mariette, and
published by Lepsius in his Antenatal and by Mariette in his Earned).
These refer to the capture of the towns of Tunep, in the 5th campaign
and 29311 year of the king's reign, and Aruthut, in the 8th campaign and
30th year, in the land of Butch, with the list of the booty and captives,
including the king's sons and brothers. They also contain lists of booty,
of the diet year, from the town of An-an-rut on the lake Nes-ro-an, and
of the am ym, from the land of Eaten and Neharaln (Mesopotamia)
with the town of Hi; the tribute from inhabitants of firmness, Sanger
(with real and artificial laptodazulil, e: um Khan, Punt, of the 84th year
from the land of debt, captured towns, horses, chariots golden uten~
sils, etc, also from the king of Ratan, Asebi (Cyprus) and hush had also
to pay a high tribute, the latter chiefly in gold. In the 33th year, in m
sum campaign, the king mat and defeated the Assyrian army near Ariana.
The records of the remaining campaigns m: me I'm; at booty are still
in their original position. The 13th or edition (33th year) was against
the town of dosages. Bad 1m mum by tribute from Zahl, Asebi,
Arirehh, Punt, and Wawat (to the S. of Egypt); the Nth campaign
(39th year), against the Sheen and Eaten, was marked by the destruction
of the towns ofdrautu and Tsnep. Finally appears the command to erect
a memorial tablet of all these victories.

In the same corridor as the above inscriptions, appear representations of the gifts presented to the temple by Tutmes Hit,
including the two obelisks mentioned at p. 133.

2. Large Building of Tntmcs HI.
Continuing our progress still towards the E. beyond the sanctuary, we reach first a fist open space (Pl. G), about 80 paces
wide, in which, immediately behind the sanctuary, are r: few



