at Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Route. 139

scanty relics of the earliest recognizable buildings of the temple of
the 12th Dynasty. Farther on, in the axis of the sanctuary, are two
square granite bases, one behind the other, being the relics of
sixteen-sided columns, with the name of Usertesen I. A little
farther to the E. is the doorway of the-----
Great Colonnade of Tubman ULUPI. H). The reports of the military success ofthis prince, which we have just perused, telling us of the
enormous wealth at his disposal, and still more the reverence which
we see him paying to Amman at every turn, prepare us to find in
this temple some important building reared by him to his divine
patron. The space to the W. of the ancient sanctuary had already
been occupied by the edifices of his ancestors, so that, as his new
building was also to maintain connection with the holy place, he
was forced to build on the site to the E We have already seen
how, contrary to the usual custom, he provided the sacred granite-chamber with a second doorway (opening to the E.) The form and
appearance of the courts and chambers that lay between the sauce
teary and the colonnade cannot now be determined, for they have
been utterly destroyed. The ancient holy place built by the kings
of the fish Dyn. was probably surrounded by two concentric walls,
separated by an archway or passage. The colonnaded hall, which
we enter by the central door, is 144 ft wide and 52 ft. deep. The
roof was supported by 20 columns in two rows; while 32 square pillars (M at the sides, d at the ends) formed four galleries with the
walls of the hall. The pillars, though not so tall as the columns, were
of the same height as the walls, and with the latter supported the
roofing slabs. As the middle of the hall was also roofed, a small
wall, with sloping exterior and decorated with the astragal and concave cornice, rose from the roof above the pillars and walls to the
height of the columns in the centre. There was thus formed a kind
of clerestory, which was provided with rectangular windows, broader
than they were high, in order to admit light to the hall. The central
columns belong to a peculiar order, the various parts of which on
the shaft and capital were indicated only by painting. They have
received the name of'inoortcd culymncapituls', because the balls or
calyces were placed inserted on the smooth shafts, which were
painted a dark red and adorned with vertical inscriptions, recalling
the similar decoration of the central panels of the fluted polygonal
columns. As the edge of the tlow-Irs rested upon the end of the
shaft, the latter expanded at the top, with some abruptness; and
the annuli had. in consequence to be placed somewhat low down
on the cylindrical shaft (below the beginning of the expansion),
to save them from the appearance of slipping down. The capitals
are adorned with calyx- or marshnplants, the tips of which, of course,
point downwards. In place of the fruit-germ, these inverted calyces support somewhat lofty sheet, on which rests an architrave
adorned with fine hieroglyphics. The fourth abacus on he E Ide










