140 Route If, KARNAK. East Bank

(new in the Louvre) beam on its N. side an inscription of the king
Takelut. The method of uniting capital and shaft gives evidence
of genuine artistic feeling; but the general effect of this style of
column was unattractive, and after its employment here it found no
admirers and was given up .--- This hall contains no inscriptions
of general interest. The hieroglyphic characters on the architrave
are carved in the large and handsome style of the 18th Dym, but
they merely announce in the usual formal way that Tutmes 1H.
built the hall of fine limestone and sandstone in honour of his
father Amman.

The S. part of the rear-wall of this hall in adjoined by a
chamber in which seven well-made polygonal columns are still
standing. Two small doorways lead from the centre of the colonnaded hall into a SANCTUARY (PI. I), on the front of which the name
Alexander may be read. This, however, does not refer to the great
conqueror of Daring, but to his and Ronana's son, Alexander IL,
a royal puppet for whom Ptolemy I. Soter ruled. Another inscription informs us that Tutmes built this sanctuary also. The latter
was probably used for special cults, while, as we have seen, the
granite room of Philip An'deus (p. 134) must be regarded as the
holy of holies proper, even for this temple. The colours on the
wane of this room are in good preservation. In spite of the ruins
and rubbish lying about here the traveller should not omit to glance
into the chambers of the rear colonnaded hall. One of them contains an interesting representation. The god Seth (Vol. L, p. 132;
here half defaced) of Nub (Rom Ombo) teaches Tutmes H. to
shoot with the bow, while Horus instructs him in the use of the
lance. The hostile twin-brothers bestow upon the Pharaoh strength
to win victory, which is symbolized by the vulture of victory hovering
above the group.

The Columns which are still standing in the hinder portions of
the temple are of interest as specimens of the favourite orders under
the 18th Dynasty. Near the centre four beautifully sculptured papyrus-bud columns stand in a row from E. to W., and a few paces
to the NW. are two polygonal columns united by an architrave. In
Room Y, excavated by Mariette, are some interesting representation
"animals and plants, which. as the accompanying inscriptions
inform us, were transplanted from Retennu (Assyria) to Egypt by
Tunnel 11L, in the 25th year of his reign.

We now turn to the s, to the Side-Building of the temple of Tie
mes Ill. (PL K), where there are 9 chambers adjoining each other,
each opening to the N. The two at the E. and are halls, each with two
columns to support the roof, while of the other seven chambers three
are completely ruined. Opposite the westernmost of than by the
chamber which contained the celebrated Karmic Tablet of the
King: (Vol. L, p. 85), transferred to Parts by Prisse d'Avennes
and now in the Bibliotheque Nationals. Only about 40 of the






