at Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Route. 141

6G oartouehes which it included, are new legible. Besides the colon
brated kings of the earliest dynasties, the series embraces especially
the kings of the 11th Dye. (the Antef) and of the 12th, 13th, and
17th (conquerors of the Hyhsos) Dym, who all probably resided at
Thebes. The names, however, are not in chronological order,
Omitting for the present the lake (p. 144) to the S. of this row
of chambers, we return to the middle of the building and quit it
by the girdle-wall on the E. Immediately behind the wall Ramses H
built a Hall (Pl. L), adorned with caryatides, now completely ruined
About 45 paces farther E., and connected with this hall is a small
Temple (Ph M), built by the same Pharaoh, but so ruined as to
present little of interest. Caryatides were employed here also; and
two papyrus-bud columns may be mentioned, on which the place
of the usual cubical abaci is occupied by tolerably high fragments
of earlier polygonal shafts, utilized in the same manner as the Arabs
used the fragments of Greek and Roman temples. Beyond these
ruins, and still farther to the E., is the well-preserved Pylon VI.
(62 ft. high), which must be regarded as the main entrance to the
great temple at Amman for those approaching from the E. Outside
it traces of the girdle-wall of the temple, built of bricks of Nile
clay, may still be found. This eastmost pylon has few sculptures,
but the inscriptions indicate that it was erected by Nehhtnnebf, he.
Neetanebus IL, who had not time to finish its decoration. This prince,
who ascended the throne of the Pharaohs during the Persian era and
waged successful were, especially in Upper Egypt against the satraps
of the Asiatic invaders, found both courage and means, hard pressed
and threatened as he was, to erect important buildings not only
here but also on the island of Philae and elsewhere. Thus the pylon
which limited the temple of Ammon to the E. may be regarded as
a tangible proof of the obstinate independence of the Egyptians. This pylon is 510 Na. distant from the first (W.) pylon.

If we turn to the right (8.) outside the E. pylon of Nectanebus ll. we
soon reach a small building bearing the cartouchos of Ramses Ill. and.
Emcee IV. To the N. of the pylon Has a recently-excavated small Terrapin,
in which occur the names of Ameniritis, sister of Sahako l, (25th Dye.)
and consort of King Piankhi, and of their daughter Shep-en-apt, who
married Psammetikh I. of the 26th Dynasty.

f.The 8. Side of the Temple of Am men.

We now return towards the W., re--enter the hypostyle court of
the great temple by the door (Pl. d) mentioned at p. 127, traverse
the court from N. to S. between the 4th and 5th rows of columns
(reckoned from the second pylon), and quit it by the door at Pl. e. If
we turn and face the outside of the S. well of the temple, we find,
to the left, representations of the towns of Palestine captured by
Sheshenk (described on p. 123), and, to the right, various military
representations, referring to the campaigns of Ramses 11. against
the Khan; (Arammns) Th3 Epic of Pentaur, referring 0 the game








