142 Route 11. KARNAK. East Bank

campaigns, which we have already met with on the pylon at Luxor
(p. 112) and which will be mentioned again when we visit the
Ramesseum (p. 161), occurs also here in long but not easily accessible lines of hieroglyphics. About 40 ft. to the right (E) of the
door through which we quitted the hypostyle, a short wall projects
at right angles from the wall of the great temple, bearing a most
interesting anti important inscription, containing the Treaty of Peace
destined to put an end to the wars between the Egyptians and the

Asiatics.

This is the most ancient international treaty extent in the world, and it is
as remarkable for its contents as for its form, which is so conceived in the
essential points that modern documents of a similar aim differ from it
only in the greater conciseness of their expressions. The bottom of the
inscription is at resent concealed by rubbish The treaty is dated the
21st Tybi in the let year of King Ramses ll. Miamnn, in the town of
Tania, as. the Ramsestown. The Kheta prince caused the treaty to be
engraved on a silver table and sent an ambassador to seek peace. The
document proper, divided into paragraphs and translated by the eminent
French Egyptologist F, Chabas, begins as follows:'Formerly and for a
long period the mighty king of Egypt and the prince of the Kheta lived
in good understanding (God grant that hostility never again exist between
them). Nevertheless he declared war against the great king (Sen 1.) of
Egypt, in the time or Mamnun my brother, prince of the Kheta. But
from to-day and from this iuy Khamsnn princa of the Kheta, makes a
treaty in order to arrive at o Mating understanding May Ra, may Seth
lend them endurance, as well for Egypt as for the land of the Km.
{ Aramaea), so that hostility may never again arise between them. - The
following points were agreed upon: linemen, prince of the Kheta, unites
with llamas Miamun um mighty king of Egypt, to cause to exist between
them good peace and good alliance from this day onwards forever. He
shall be allied with me, he shall be at peace with me; and I, I shall be
allied with him, and I, I shall be at peace with him forever". After a
brief historical retrospect, the treaty goes on:'The prince of the Kheta
will never again invade Egypt to carry off anything whatever out of it,
and names mmun, the mighty king of Egypt, will never invade the
land of the Knew, to carry "anything whatever out of it". Then, after
another historical retrospect:'When enemies turn against the land of
Ramses bliamun, the mighty king of Egypt, he will send to the prince of
the Khan: the message. Tome and unite myself with my might against
them". The prince of the Kheta will be at the disposal of the king of Egypt
and will smite his enemies. If the prince of the Khota does not take the
field in person, he will send his foetusoldiers and war chariots to smite
the enemies of the king of Egypt.... and vice verse (with repetition
of the above paragraph). - Than runom a remarkable convention by
which the parties to the treaty bind themselves not to use force in preventing
mixed workmen from passing from one country into the omen The gods
and goddesses, the Baalim of the meta (translated'Seth'3,
Astute, and a "thousand" local deities mountains, and rivers are invoked
as witnesses by the deletion, while the Egyptians invoke Amman Ra, Seth,
the warlike gods and goddesses, the mountains and rivers of Egypt, the
shore of the Mediterranean, the wind, and m emu These powers are
to punish the breaker of the treaty; while to him who keeps it they shall
grant life, to him and to his house, his estate, and his servants. Next
follow two remarkable articles in which the contracting parties bind
themselves mutually to extradite criminals; though, by a condition which
speaks highly for the civilization reached by both nations, his crime
'shall not be permitted to raise itself" against the extradited criminal, as.
the criminal process against him shall be suspended, and no harm shall
be done to his house or to his wife, or to his 0 ran; he shall
also not be punished in the eye, mouth, or, foot








