at Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Route. 143

accusation of crime shall be brought against him. The last legible lines
of the inscription are as follows:'On the from of the silver table is the
figure of the statue of Seth, embracing the statue of the prince of the Kheta'.
The encircling inscription runs:'0 figure of Beth, king of heaven and
earth, grant that the treaty which Khetasar, prince of the Khota etc....."

n. The Northern Buildings.

A visit to the mine to the N. of the temple of Ammon need not
detain the traveller for any long time, unless his object be to decipher the
inscriptions and to gather from them philological or historical information.
They are in bad preservation; and the NE. group, the temple of the wargod Mania, is in especial so completely ruined that it is difficult to reconstruot its ground-plan, although in size it was originally as large as the
temple of Khuusu (p. 1118). The traveller who has little time at his
disposal, or who must proceed with the steamer, may content himself
with a glance at the great N. girdle-wall of Nilevbricks, and at the gate
of the Ptolemies.

Beginning at the E. Pylon of Nectanebns (p. lit), we skirt the
girdlouwall of the great temple of Ammon, first to the N. and then
to the W. (left), until we see upon the right or N. side of our path
another girdle-wall of Nile-bricks. Within this lies a ruined Temple
(Pl. N), the axis of which lies S.W. and N .15 }." Like the N. pylon (see
below) it was dedicated to Monte, the god of war, and is frequently
mentioned on demotic tiles (ostraca). Stretching NE. from this
building is an avenue of sphinxes, which we reach on passing
through the door of a well-preserved pylon. Little now remains of
the temple, which dates from the time of Amenhotep ill. of the
18th Dyn. (who also erected two obelisks, as appears from a fragmentary inscription found here), though it was subsequently several
times enlarged between the reign of Ramses IV. and the epoch of
the Ptolemies, especially by Ptolemy IV. Philopator. Ptolemy H.'
Philadelphus and Ptolemy HI. Euergetes have recorded their names
here, and there is also a stone bearing the name of'Ramses'. The
earlier sculptures and architectural fragments are of great beauty;
and columns with Hathor capitals were also employed. The abovementioned Pylon (Pl. Vii), the most N. part of the edifice new
remaining, was founded by Ptolemy H. At its foot is a list of
names, and higher up are numerous other inscriptiolm Th5 felliNn
boys are shy of accompanying travellers to this spot towards evening,
as it is said to be haunted by an'Afrit or devil. it is called by the
natives Bail) assets, or gate of the negro-slaves, probably on account
of some of the representations on its walls.

From the pylon we proceed to the S.W., passing the remains of
a Pwlemaic tompiaZU'L o), of which the staircase is still to be
seen, to another Temple, consisting of six small chambers (Pl. k
to p). The second from the W. (Pl. 1) contains the name of Amew
niritis, with that of her brother Sebaho. The fine alabaster statue
of the queen, now in the museum at Gizeh, was found here. The
temple it shows the rare name of Nepherites (29th Dyn.); a dates
from the 22nd Dynasty. The names of Taharka, Osot, _ and





