144 Route 11. KARNAK. East Bank

queen Kammat, and on the wall of the second chamber, of Take: lut H. and his consort Koremama, may be read here. The last
chamber (Pl. p) dates from Nectanebus I.

t .On the other side of the girdle-wall, its. over the hill, is another
Building (PI. P), erected by Tutmes 111., but where also are found
the names of King Hams, Sebako, Taharka, and several of the Ptolemies, including Philometor and Neos Dionysus. This temple was
dedicated to Pink and Harbor, whose priests are represented. In a
chamber, which may be described as the Promos, are traces of the
staircase leading to the roof, now fallen in. Here also are two polygonal columns, which, taken in connection with dedieatory inscription, indicate that the erection of the temple was begun under the
18th Dynasty. As we again approach the N. wall of the hypostyle
of the great temple and the door by which we issued to view the
battle-reliefs of Seti L (p. 127), we pass, a little to the N. of the
latter, two small ruined temples (Pl. Q) of the 26th Dynasty. The
princes of this illustrious line were less able to rear elaborate buildings at Thebes in proportion as they devoted the means at their
disposal to building magnificent temples in honour of the gods of
Memphis and still more of Sale, their residences in Lower Egypt.
These little temples, new surrounded by the ruined huts of a (lo-sorted Arab village, were, according to the inscriptions, built by
Queen Ankhnes, who here appears with Psemmetikh UL (perhaps
her son?) and with her husband Aahmes. Ankhnes was the daughter
of Psemmetikh IL To the right of the entrance and in the doorway
to the left of the smaller temple is the queen accompanied by her
young Chamberlain Sheshonk, ascion of the Bubastites of the 22nd
Dym, in whose reins flowed royal blood. N itocris, wife of Psammem
mm 11., also appears in the second doorway of the interior. Her
magnificent sarcophagus is new in the museum at Gizeh, while that
of Queen Ankhnes is in the British Museum.

m. The Southern H

The short projecting wall, on which is the treaty mentioned at
p. 142, is part of the series of courts and pylons which connected
the temple of Ammon with that of Math, lying to the S. Before
inspecting this remarkable part of the great temple, we find our way
through the ruins to the somewhat more distant Lake. The Arabs
name this Birket eta--Mullahs }: or Lake of the Salt-pit, as the water has
become saline and undrinkable through infiltration. It is known
that each temple formerly possessed a Sacred Lake, and there is no
doubt that in antiquity the golden boat of the god used to float upon
the water of this pond, kept pure and fresh. The banks were anciently faced with hewn stones, and traces of these are still to be
seen on the W., 8, and especially on the N. or nearest side, though
at most points they were covered by rubbish in the course of ages.
Between this lake and the part of the main temple that enclosed. the






