at Weber KARNAK. 11. Route. 145

granite sanctuary (p. 134) are a few half-ruined chambers forming
a kind of annexe to the S. wall of the temple, and partly constructed
of alabaster, a substance rarely used for building. The ruins
nearest the lake date from the reign of Tutmes 111., these immediately adjoining the templewwall from the reign of the Ethiopian
Taharka. A square apartment, decorated with paintings of which
the colours are still vivid, displays some curious deities, probably
Ethiopian, but only the upper parts of the paintings are now visible.

We now return to the doorway opening to the S., between the
third and fourth pylons (p. 132), upon which is the cartouehe of

Ramses IX. (D; U Ra nefer ka, To the S.W. of this point, in an

irregular line and at varying distances from each other, are Pylons
VIII, IX, X, and XI. From the last of these an avenue of sphinxes
(new concealed by a small wood) stretches to the temple of Mirth.
Pylon XI is turned towards this avenue, but the pylons X, IX, and
VIII, succeeding each other towards'the N., gradually effect the
transition to the great temple of Ammon by their position and the
angle they stand at with reference to the S. wall of the great temple;
for, as will be seen from the Plan, none of them is exactly parallel
with that wall. The four pylons are connected with each other by
side-walls running at irregular angles, and thus enclosing four
courts, which, however, are no longer clearly defined owing to gaps
in the walls. Through these four gateways passed the ancient processional route, which began at the temple of Math, in which were
the statues of Sekhet (p. 148), and ended at the temple of Ammon
in the space with the two obelisks (p. 132), which may be regarded
as the vestibule of the sanctuary.'

The series of four Courts between the pylons, which we now
visit, had an aggregate length of 310 yds. (not reckoning the Sphinxavenue). It was begun in the early times of the 18th Dyn. (Tut-w
runs 1.), and was afterwards several times enlarged and adorned.
Beginning at the gateway of Ramses IE. (see above), we have on
our right the fragment of wall (probably dating from Semi L) on
the W. side of which is the famous treaty (p. 142), and on the
left the wall running to meet Pylon VIII, and probably dating like
that pylon from Tutmes m, On the front of this latter wall king
Merenptah, son of Ramses 11., caused an inscription of great inter
est to be carved. T

From this we learn that the king Victoriously opposed the Libyans
and their allies, the islanders of the Mediterranean, whose later expeditions
against Egypt are recorded in the inscriptions at Hedinet Hahn (p. 177).
Under his father the Egyptians had advanced into Asia; new, the peoples
to the W. and N. of the Nile valley, the Libyans and Kenyans, and with
them Lycians, Sicih'tms Achaeans. and a tribe named Pulesta
(more probably Philiatinea than Pelasgians) dare to invade the Delta and
to dwell there like previous kings' (to. probably the Hyksos). Merenptah
assembles an army, and encouraged by a dream defeats the allies. The
number of the min and the most valuable portions of thewbooty are ilee

BAmratrsut's Upper Egypt. "19



