146 Route 11. KARNAK. East Bank

tailed. The triumphant king does not forget his father Amman, in whose
temple he causes the record of his victory to be inscribed.

Though Tutmes Ill. erected Pylon V111, Merenptah afterwards appropriated it to himself. On the side to the left of the beholder the S. tribes, and on the right side, the N. tribes are depicted as captives, with their name-rings,

The lists seem to have been edited three times. At first there were on the
left only i? names, written from left to right, and on the right 52 names,
written from right to left. Subsequently three rows, written in the opposite direction were added to the three lowest rows «--on the left the
name-rings ig-ii,"H-N, 98-119---- - so that 117 B. tribes and 119 N. tribes were recorded,
corresponding with the two other long lists of tribes by Tutmes ill. on
Pylon VI, in the great temple of Ammon, and on the 8. side of Pylon VII.
At a still later date (ossibly not till Merenptah's reign) 152 name-rings
were added at the on s on the left (3. tribes) md MO xmmevrmga on the
ends on the right (N. tribes).

On the right (N) and of the N. wing of Pylon VIII is a short
inscription of the'let Dyn., relating to the restoration of the rights
of a Princess Remake. The other (so side of the pylon consists of
two portions, some distance apart, representing Tutmes m, seizing prisoners in presence of Amman, On the left (W. side) are the
N tribes, described as the great ones of the Retennu, of all the
remote (seta) lands, of the Fenekhn (Phoenicians). On the right
JO Ride are the peoples of the 8. Before the centre of the pylon
are remains of statues of Tntmes Ill.

The next court is much smaller than the courts between the
pylons farther to the S. The well-preserved Second Pylon (Pl. 1X)
is interesting as the most ancient part of the entire building. It
was founded by Tutmes L, and its gateway was provided with
inscription by his sons, Tutmes H. and Tutmes L is seen on the N. side (left) worshipping the triad of
Thebes; and beside this representation is an interesting poetic inn
scription (damaged) extolling the might and the victories of this
prince. Above is the boat of Ammon Ra borne by priests, in front
of which Is Tutnws IL receiving the symbol of life from the lionheaded Uarthekeu (the great sorceress), behind whom is the goddess
Hathor of Denderah, pouring water from a vessel. To the left of this
King Seti L appears twice before Amman Be, who is followed by
fifteen deities in three rows of five, On the right side of the pylon,
towards the top, is a similar boat, beneath which are representations
of Ramses ill. Flak an. On the S. side of the pylon, to the right,
is Amenhotep Ill, smiting a band of enemies. As this king was
unable to complete the inscriptions on the left side, Seti I. took
advantage of the recent space to commemorate his name. Four
Colossi originally stood before this pylon. Those to the right have
disappeared, but those still extant to the left are highly interesting.
The huge yellowish torso immediately to the left of the door has
the name of Tumes H. on the girdle; and in an inscription on
its back Tutmes Ill. announces that be erected th estate in the










