"at Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Route. 147

42nd year of his reign in honour of his father Tutmes I. The
skill shown in the working of the sandstone conglomerate used for
the statue is noteworthy. Pebbles as large as bullets occur in the
stone, yet the surface has a wonderfully smooth polish. The other
colossus, which belongs to Amenhotep IL, is made of white limestone of a fine grain. The head is still an aim bat the face is dis-.
figured, An adjoining State, with a much defaced inscription, records that Amenhotep n. led the Egyptian army as far as Niniveh.
On the B. side of Pylon IX is an invocation of some length to Amman
from the high-priests Roma and Roi, in the reign of Semi If. On
the outside of the E. wall between Pylons VIII and IE and on Pylon IX next to the small doorway, are inscriptions by Amenhotep,
high priest of Thebes in the time of Ramses IX. (Neferkara), in
which he speaks of the restoration of a then ruined building that
had been erected by Usertesen L (12th Eyre). Close to Pylon VIII
is a small Chapel (PI, (1).

The next Pylon (PI, X) has collapsed, leaving fragments of walls
standing to the extreme right and left, separated by a saddle-shaped
depression. From the shattered inscriptions we learn that King
Horus founded this pylon, though Ramses H. afterwards unjustly
placed his own name upon it and upon two granite statues no longer
extent. The names of Ramses IT, (Halt mi) and above it Ramses VI.
(Nefer hak an) are also found, on the horizontal band on the N. side
of the pylon. King Home and Ramses VI. are represented on the
W. side of the connecting wall. The ruins are most easily skirted
on the W. side, and beyond them is a spacious Court, bounded on
the S. by the Last Pylon (Pi. XI). The wings of this huge edifice,
constructed of harm sandstone, have collapsed, but the central doorway of granite is still standing. Four blocks of granite, on the right
of the doorway and facing the court, are decorated with a Relief,
representing with remarkable vivacity King Horus approaching the
god with two libation-ressels. An inscription within the granite
portal informs us that this king, who ruled at the close of the 18th
Dam, built the pylon, using for that purpose some hewn stones
bearing the name of Amenhotep IT, the strange
, sun-worshipper whom we met at Tell el-Amarnah (p. 23). From this
it has been concluded that a building erected at Karnak by the
schismatic was destroyed soon after his death. In front of the N.
side of the pylon are two headless limestone colossi. Ramses H.
placed his name upon these as well as upon the pylon; and some
priests of Ammon of the 21st Dyn. have also commemorated themselves upon the latter. « M On the W. Wall, uniting Pylons XI and
X is a representation, restored by, Horus, of the Sacred Boat
of Amman, which must have been carried in solemn procession
through the series of pylons now engaging our attention. The E.
Wall, which bears an inscription to the effect that King Horus core
quered Punt (Arabia), is interrupted by a building PL S) n which






