148 Route If, KARNAK. Em Bank

square pillars are used in place of the more usual columns. These
simple artistic forms themselves suggest an early origin for the
edifice, and the inscriptions record that it was built by Amenhotep H.
and HI. A gallery is adjoined by a hall with 20 pillars, and that
again by several apartments arranged in a manner net elsewhere
found. On several of the pillars, whose unadorned capitals are
striking, the king appears before Amman. It is not easy to determine the purpose of this building. It cannot have been a palace.
Perhaps it contained stables for the sacred animals of the different
deities, or was the depository for the sacrificial gifts presented within
the first pylon. Perhaps Ammon's guard of honour, which is frequently mentioned and which had to watch over the temple, was
quartered here; or it may have been used by the priests on duty for
the day as a temporary resort. Various reasons prevent us from
regarding it as the actual abode either of the kings or of the attendants on the gods .--To the S. of Pylon X1 is the base of a Statue
of King Home, the lower part of which dates from Amenhotep 1H.

Beyond the pylon, which we skirt rather than pass through, is
the Avenue of Sphinxes, bounding the processional route that led to
the S. buildings. To the E. of the avenue two Chambers, painted
in bright colours, were excavated by Mariette. They belong to a
temple of Osiris-Ptah, who is here represented as worshipped by
Taharka and by Amontanut, apparently a contemporary king (the
Urdamani of Assyrian inscriptions).,

The avenue leads to the temple of Much (see below), while it is
connected by a branch with the ephinx-avenue leading from the
temple of Khuusu to Lust (comp. p. IN). In a straight direction
the first-mentioned avenue is terminated by a Gate (PI, r), built by
the Ptolemies, in the N. side of a girdle-swell enclosing a horse-shoe
shaped lake. In front of this lake stood the Temple of Hath (Pi. I),
built by Amenhotep HI, and now so completely ruined that it is
difficult to determine its original arrangement. To the right and
left of the gate of Ptolemy Philadelphus (which bears a beautiful
hymn to the goddess Math), and both without and within the girdlewall, were numerous lion-headed Figures of Satchel, many of which
have already found their way to European museums (e.g. at Turin).
A second gate bears the cartouches of Setl H. and Setonehht. In a
small Apartment on the E. side of the temple is a record of a restoration of the temple by Mentuemhat, priest of Ammon, in the time
of Teharka. To the W. of the horse--shoe lake are the remains of a
small Temple (PI, U), built by Ramses m., who here recorded his
victory over the land of Tahi and the animals and other rich booty
which he thereby obtained.

W. The Temple of nun.

About 150 paces to the W. of the last pylon (p, 147) passed in
our way towards the s, Han the beautiful an,,, ,',,! ,,, interes ng'Tem n mp le











