at Thebes. KARNAK. 11. Route. 149

of Khumm (Pl. V), the portal of which we have already seen on our
way from Loser to the river-front of the great temple of Ammon.
An avenue of sphinxos, approximately parallel with the above-amentionod avenue between Pylon XI and the temple of Math, leads to
the slender Ptolemaic Pylon XII and beyond it to the temple of
Khunsu proper, which lies a little farther N. The temple is beautifully proportioned, in many places adorned with remarkable care,
and in various respects of great interest. It was erected by Ram-ses HI. in honour of Khumu, is. the god who represents, so to
speak, the youthful Amman in the triad of Thebes. Elsewhere, it
may here be noted, Khunsu is conceived of almost as the moon-god
(with the child's lock of hair on his temple and the crescent-unless.
on his head), and thus identified with Thom-Hermes. Just as
Amman is called the soul of Ra, so Khunsa is to be regarded as the
spiritual quintessence of the earlier moon-god, and may be named,
like Thoth,'the representative of the spirit, the ratio interns of all
things'. As Pa ar sekher or'pun-maker' he guides the deliberations
of mortals, and he becomes also the divine physician (Khunsu nefer
bony'the good helper"), who considerate" matures the sick to
health. Cynocephali, sacred to Khunsu as well as to Thou), were
kept here .--In the great Harris Papyrus Ramses HI. says of this
temple:'1 built a house in Thebes for thy son Khunsu, of good hewn
stone, of sandstone, black stone, its doors covered with gold, adorned
with electrum like the celestial horizon'. In the same document it is
named Pa (house) Ramses halt an in Pa Khunsu with 284 persons;
and afterwards:'Persons whom he (Ramses Ill.) gave to Pa Kimmu
in Ca: Neferhotep, Her lord of the wide heart, 249'. There thus
appear to have been two different temples erected to Khunsu. The
inscriptions inform us that he had not time to finish the'House
of Khunsu', but was obliged to leave later rulers to complete the
Peristyle Court and the Pylon. The last was erected by the priestking Pinozem, son of Piankhi, of the 21st Dym; but Alexander H.
is also commemorated in the doorway to the peristyle court. This
court itself has on three sides a double row of papyrus-bud columns,
six in each row. From the inscriptions we gather that after portions of this building were built by various Ramses of the 20th Dyn,
the priest-king Harbor, predecessor and perhaps grandfather ofPinorem, contributed to its decoration. Most of what we know of the
kings of the gist Dyn. is derived from the inscriptions here.

The close connection which must at that time have existed between
Asia and the Nile valley is proved by a Stale found in the temple of
Khunsu and now preserved in the Blbliotheque Nationals at Paris. Upon
this one of the last kings of the 20th Dyn. records that he married the
daughter of a tributary prince, made her his lumen and in order to cure
her younger sister who was possessed by devils (is. insane) sent first a
physician and then a statue oftKhunsu to Bekhten. After the healing godahad

one what was expected of hem, the Pharoah detained

the name until he was warned in a dream to send it back to BMW in
its sacred boat.

The peristyle court is succeeded by a narrow Hall



l



extending






