150 Route 11. KARNAK. East Bank

across the entire breadth of the temple and having its roof supported
by eight columns in two rows with calyx-capitals. This was at least
adorned, if not built, by Ramses XIII.; while the door bears the
cartouche of Nekhnebf L The calyx-capitals are comparatively low,
and their edges are bent out to a remarkable extent. Beyond this
hall are the rooms of the Sanctuary. Here, especially in the rooms
to the E, are a series of deeply carved inscriptions, some of which
are of great scientific importance though of little general interest.
Ramses IV. (hick mi) and Ramses XIII. occur here, and several
Ptolemaic princes have carved their names. Various Greeks, of
late date, have also left their names in longer or short inscriptions,
placed beside representations, of foot-prints (indicating that they
had visited the spot: as pilgrims), a habit illustrated also at Philae
and elsewhere (ea, Lashes). leis and Khunsu (besides Thoth)









were the gods to whose shrines pilgrimages were most frequently
made in search of health. It is worth noting that the temple of
Khunsu contains the only representation of circumcision yet discovered in Egypt. Not only Khunsu, but also the other gods of the
triad to which he belonged were worshipped in this temple; both
Math, called'the great' and the'mistress of Ashru', xnd AmmonRa t'lard of the throne of both worlds in E. Thebes, ruler of
heaven, and king of all gods'. Of the deductions-inscriptions,
which abound in wearisome profusion on the architraves and else.
where, one, of the time of Ramses XML, will serve as an example:
'The living good god (he. the Pharaoh) raised this building in the
house of his father Khunsu, the lord of Thebes, and built this temple
of good limestone and sandstone in workmanship for long duration'.

V. The Small Temple of Apet.

The Temple of Apct (PI. W), once occupied by Champollion as
a dwelling, lies close to the W. wall of the temple of Khunsu. It
is new used as a depository for the smaller monuments found at
Karnak, the best of which are periodically transferred to the Egyptian museum at Gizeh. Diab Timmy, who lives opposite (a boy
will summon him), opens the temple on request. Among less interesting objects a beautifully executed torso of Tutmes m. is








