a: Them. KARNAK. 11. Route. 151

preserved here. The roof of the First Room is supported by two
Ptolemaic columns, with Esther-masks on the abacus. To the right
and left of this wide hall are two rooms, and behind are three
others, the middle one of which gives access to the Sanctuary. The
inscriptions on the walls owe their origin to the Ptolemies; the
earliest, as the dedication--inscription also informs us, to Ptolemy IX.
Euergetes IL, and to Cleopatra, his sister and wife. The pregnant
hippopotamuagoddess Apet was the goddess of births. Her finely
executed statue of serpentine, found in the ruins of the ancient
city, is now in the museum at Gizeh. It dates from the 26th D nasty. The inscriptions and.'representations refer largely to Osiris,
whose birth was commemorated here, and to the gods associated
with him. On the outside of the templeuwall and on the walls adjoining it are found the names of Ptolemy Auletes and the emperor
Augustus. A list of homes, also found here, is unfortunately much
damaged..

Exeunemu TO MKDAMOT, only to he mammal: when there is abundance of time; 4-6 hrs. are necessary. The site is reached after 1V2 hrfis
rapid riding We proceed" first to the E. sphinx-avenuo of Kernels, where
the road diverges to the right, along a large embankment. It then turns
to the left and runs mostly along the edge of ditches, frequented, especially
in December, by wild fowl.

The Temple of Modernist, at one time a large and beautiful edifice, is
now so completely ruined that even its ground-plan cannot be traced. The
village, a kind of suburb of Thebes, was called Teman and lay to the N.
of the temple. Month of Thebes was the god chiefly worshipped here, but
Buto (seal) and hpet were also revered. Um erection of this temple dates
from the time of Amenhotep 11., of the 18th Dynasty. His name occurs
on the large granite'pillars which are still standing and which probably
formed part of the Sanctuary. Numerous blocks of granite lie scattered
around. The sanctuary was adjoined by a large edifice, lying approximately from E. to W. Much farther to the W. was a Pylon, facing the
river, but now destroyed, leaving nothing but a heap of blocks of sandstone. Various fragmentary inscriptions in a good style inform us that
it was built by Sell 1. and Ramses IL Under the Ptolemies an addition
was made to the earlier temple, including the Colonnade, which is new
the most conspicuous and most interesting feature of the ruins. Five
columns are still standing. Four of these, on which still rests the stone
architrave, appear to have bounded a new destroyed peristyle court and
to have formed the first row of columns in a hypostyle hall, which cannot
have existed before the time of the Ptolemies. The other column is the
only relic of the second row. Both this and the two bud-columns (to the
left) in the first row appear to belong to £11616": Dim; Has two latter
certainly did, for their sculptured shafts and capitals clearly indicate that
the artistic idea which dictated their form still retained a vigorous
freshness at the time of their erection. On the other hand the late elaborate plastic decoration of the calyx~capitals of the other two columns
more to the right, the curious closing of the intercolumniations by mum
of barrier-like walls, half as high as the shafts, and crowned with a concave
cornice, and the treatment of the doors, whose absent covering was merely
indicated on both sides b erections with concave cornices, would in themselves be proofs that the nilding was not erected before the epoch of the
Ptolemies, even if the inscriptions did not contain the same information.
Bees have built their nests in many of the deep hieroglyphics which comE088 the inscriptions, but we can still distinguish the names of Ptolemy IX,

uergetes IL, the copier and destroyer of Thebes, and those of Lathyrus





