152 Route: 12. THERES. West Bank."

and deletes. Antonin" Pius bestowed some attention on the decoration
of this edifice, the picturesque remains of which show that even in the age
of the Ptolemies the practice of using ancient columns for new building:
was well understood, a practice which became very common under the
Arabs. The use of other ancient fragments of buildings (especially hewn
blocks of stone) was frequent even in very early times.

As we return, We may once more walk through the temple of Karnak,
a digression which will not add more than 1/2 hr. to the day's expedition.
If the traveller have made an early start, he may lunch in the hypostyle
hall of Kernels, under the shadow of the largest columns in the world
where the destroyers of the temple and previous travellers have provided
east: in the shape of blocks of stone.



B. THE WEST BANK AT THEBES.

Passengers by the three-weeks' touristwsleamere devote the 1st and 3rd
(Cook) or 2nd and 3rd (Graze) day of their stay at Thebes to the West
Bank; those by the fonrwweeh's steamers the 2nd and m (Cook) or 3rd
and Ath (Gaze) day; arranging in each case to spend the first day in a
visit to the sepnlchral temple of Soil 1. and the Tombs of the King: (33., 19,
M), and the second in visiting the Ramessenm, 5mm mm el-Kurnuh'
Dér sF9iaetstah, and Medinet Hahn (RE. 13-18). A different arran ement
is recommended on. 102, for a three days stay at Tubes, accor ing to
which the first day a visit to the W. bank is devoted to the Colossi of
Memnon, Medinet Hebe, Der el-Medineh. Shékh'dbd el-gnrnsh (RR. 1218), and the next day to the sepnlchrsl temple of Soil 1. and the Tombs
of the Kings (RR. 19 20). if five days are spent at Tube, three should
be devoted to the W bank, the first being occupied by the Colossi of
Memnon, the temple of Medinet Hahn, g1-Med'mets um lg, 15,
IT), the second by the lambs M Skékh'AbANAryrrs9,
the temple of Der elwbahri, etc. (3 & 13, 18, 21), and the third by the
Temple of Soil 1. and the Tombs of the Kings (RR. 19, 20), with which
Cook's tourists begin.

The ensuing description follows the distribution of time suggested on
p. 102 for a three day's visit to Thebes.

The following points may be visited in a single day (the 2nd of our
stay in Thebes), though not without considerable fatigue: 1.'Coloeei of
Memnon; 2. *Ramesseum; 3. Tombs of Knrnet barrel; 4. *hedinet Hahn;
6. Tombs of Shékh'Abd
el-Kornah. A little time may be saved by beginning at the Ramesseum,
and thence proceeding to the Colossi of hiemnon, Me inet Haha, m; but
it is better to visit the Colossi first, for they are at no time so impressive
as when seen in the early morning.

An early start should he made. Gum", damn, em. 565 p. 103. It
the dhahabiyeh has been anchored at Laser and not beside the W. bank
{ 6° 10!), it will be necessarfv to cross in a boat to the island opposite

nxor. Donkeys are usually band here, but a large party is recommended
to order them the night before. The island, which is dotted with bushes
and at places wellwoultivated, is crossed in about 10 min., and the donkeys then ford a shallow arm of the river. If the river is high, however,
travellers most row round the island. We pass the village, pleasantly
shaded by tree », and cross a very frail bridge over a watercourse descending to the Nile. On the bank is a handsome farm. - A Ferry We piastre)
also crosses from Laser and had: its passengers a little higher a, utenvenience it may are bound for the temple of garnet: and the embs of
the Kings.

We have already seen that the streets of Thebes with the palaces
and the dwellings of the citizens lay near the great temple of Am
men, on the E. bank, between the river and the Arabian moon




