Colossi of Momma. THERES. 12. Route. 153

talus. On the West Bank lay the Necropolis or City of the Dead,
connected with which were a large number of temples. These latter
are called Mammals, because they were dedicated to the memory
of the lives and deeds of the great Pharaohs, and because they were
regarded as the abode of the dead monarchs, and sacrifices were
offered within them to the royal mouse and to the gods, to whom
the kings owed their might. Built on the verge of the necrepolis,
they stood in close relation to the worship of the dead. Just as
scientific institutions etc. were maintained in connection with the
Serapea adjoining the cemeteries of Memphis and Alexandria, so
the temples here were adjoined by various other establishments.
These included libraries, schools, dwellings for the priests, medical
colleges, embalmingwhouses, stables and pastures for the sacred
animals, and lodgings for pilgrims, while near the sacred ponds and
groves were entire streets, containing not only barracks for the
temple-guards and dwellings for the ecclesiastical and laycfdcials,
but also shops and houses of private citizens who carried on trade
in the various articles used at burials or brought as offerings to the
deceased. The guild of Kolchytes or embalmers is frequently mtmtioned (especially at a late date) as a numerous and by no means
harmonious society. Public works of various kinds are mentioned
in the demotic and Greek commercial contracts which have been
found here and are dated from this place. Among these a canal, a
sacred lake, a large street, etc. are named. There were many other
temples besides those whose mine are new traceable, and round
each were grouped houses of various kinds, so that Strobe and other
Greek writers were justified in describing Thebes as sporadically
inhabited. The last-named. reliable geographer writes:'Thebcs is
new sporadically inhabited. Part of it lies in Arabia (E. bank of
tho Nils), including the city proper, and part on the opposite bank,
where the Memnonium is situated'. Strobe, like all his countrymen, was especially attracted by the so-called Colossi of Monsoon,
which he considered as repaying in themselves the trouble of the
journey to Thebes.

12. The Celessi of Me

The gigColonel of Homers, which are visible from a great dim
stance, are reached on donkeyuback in 20.25 min. after crossing
the W. arm of the Nile. The route, which leads through well--cultivated lands, cannot be mistaken, for the goal is in view all the
way. These two colossal statues have suffered severely from the
hand of time and have lost their artistic value, but they still
exert all their old attraction in virtue of the innumerable associations that cling to them. They are surpassed in size and in beauty
of material only by the shattered colossus in the Ramesseum. The
two immense figures and the cubical thrones on which they re






