154 Route 12, moses. West Bank:

seated are carved out of a pebbly and quartsose sandstonemconm
glomerate, of a yellowish-brown colour and sexy difficult to work.
The S. Colossus is in better preservation than the N. one, but
there is little difference between them in point of size. The dimensions of the former, in which the original form is more easily seen,
are as follows: height of the figure, 62 ft, height of the pedestal on
which the foot rest, 13 in, height of the entire monument, 64 ft.
But when the figure was adorned with the longwsirlce vanished
crown, the original height may have reached 69 ft. The legs from
the sole to the knee measure 191/2 ft., and each foot is 10% it.
long. The breadth of the shoulders is 193/4 it; the middle finger
on one hand is 4% n, long; and the arm from the tip of the
finger to the elbow measures 151/2 it. The entire colossus, including the throne and pedestal, weighs 1175 tons.
Both statues face E.S.E. and stand parallel to the course of the Nile,
though they are no longer perpendicular as one innings a little towards
the other and both are canted slightly backwards. The S. colossus is a
little in front of the N. one, from which it is 22 paces distant. Both are
seamed with cracks. and such large fragments have fallen from them, that
one could imagine that an attempt has been made to destroy them by fire.
The Arabs call the N. colossus Tame, the 8. one Shame, and both together Salamdt, or'the greetings'"
When the Nile is at its highest, its waters reach the soles of the feet
of the colossi and sometimes the upper surface of the pedestal on which
they rest. As this pedestal is 13 it. high and as the statues must have
been beyond the reach of inundations in the time of the Pharaohs, Lopsius
is correct in assuming from his observations of the nilometer at Scrunch
(p. 342) that the bed of the Nile at that point most have been considerably
raised within historical times. He estimates the total rise at 225 it. In
winter, however, the traveller reaches the statues dry-Shad. These colossi
were not always solitary monuments, remote from all other buildings. On
the contrary they originally stood on either side of a gigantic Pylon, which
rose behind them and formed the entrance to a Memnwsiem, of which extensive relics still remain, though for the most part covered with earth.
This temple, now completely annihilated, was founded b Amenhotep 111.,
who is represented by the colossi. Neither this monarch nor his statues
have any connection whatever with the Greek Memnon, who was the son
of Eat (the dawn) and Tithonus, became one of the allies of Prim, and
slew Antiloehns, the brave son of Nestor, for which he was himself slain
by Achilles. Homer mentions this Memnon twice in the Odyssey:
'For he thought in his mind of the likeness of the noble Antilochus'
'Whom the lordly son of the brightening down slew'.

And of Neoptolemus, the son of Achilles, it is said: i
'No one handsomer than he have I seen, next to the gudlike Memaoi.

This Heinrich was an Asiatic hero, who is said also to have built the
fortresses of' and Echatana. When the (hem became acquainted with
the Nile valley and its monuments, they imagined that they had found
sumptuous buildings of the Homeric hero in the commemorative monuments named'mennu' by the Egyptians (p. 53). The colossi before us
were also called'mcnnu" by the inhabitants of Thebes, and soon came to
be described by the Hellenes as statues of Monsoon, though the Egyptians
even to a late period knew that they represented Amenhotep 111., a king
of the 18th Dynasty. Pausanias was informed of this fact, and Greek ins
scriptions on the legs of the statues also mention it. When it afterwards

, That at least is the present name. Lepsius states that they were
named-, in his time t5'anamdt, or the'idols", which seems more in keeping
with oral) conceptions.





