Outcast of Manna". THEMES. 12. Route. 155

became known that the N. colossus emitted a musical note at sunrise, a
new and beautiful myth arose among the Greeks who were always ready
to invent a legend in order to explain a fact. The hero of this myth was
a Riemann, hailing from Ethiopia, who fell at Troy. Appearing as a stone
image at Thebes, be greeted his mother Ems With a sweet and plaintive
note when she appeared at dawn. The goddess heard the sound, and the
morning dews are the tears which she shed upon her beloved child.

The enormous size of the colossi and the legends that clustered round
them, rendered them so attractive to the Greeks and Romans, that Tacitus
mentions them among the chief marvels (proscipoa mirocnla) of Egypt;
and under the Roman empire travellers to the Nile considered that the
object of their journey was attained when they had seen the pyramids
and heard the musical note of Memnon.

The Northern Colossus is the famous Vocal Statue of Eamon.
This is distinctly indicated by the effusions of early tourists,
varying both in length and excellence, which are inscribed on the
legs. The statue is composed of two parts. The lower and older
part consists of a single block of sandstonemconglomerate, and
reaches to the middle of the arm resting on the knee and, behind,
to above the girdle. The upper part was broken off by an earthquake in the year 2'? B.C., and was not restored until the reign of
Septimius Severus, many years later. The restoration was not very
happily managed, for instead of being made out of a single block,
the body and head were built up of thirteen blocks of common
sandstone in fire courses. The care with which the lower part (now
much injured) was executed Offers a great contrast to the crudeness
of this newer part. To the right and left and between the legs stand
female statues leaning against the throne, representing the mother
and wife of Amenhotep 111., Mot em on and Til. On each side of
the seat two Nile-gods were represented in sunk relief, holding
papyrus plants wound round the symbol of the union of Upper and

Lower Egypt e The inscriptions on the S. colossus enable us to

supply what is here broken oft; but these, and the hieroglyphics on
the back of the statue, contain nothing beyond the high-sounding
titles of Amenhotep 1H. and the information that be erected these
palatial buildings and colossal statues of sandstone in honour of
his father Amman. The king, whom we have elsewhere found men »
titrmstl a3 a great warriorwprince, is also named a destroyer of form
eign peoples, a Home (who conquered the enemies of his father),
and the beloved of Ammon.

After the breaking of the colossus by the earthquake of 27 3.0;,
attention began to be directed to the musical phenomenon connected
with it. Strabo says:'Of two gigantic monolithic statues situated
close to each other, one is entire, while the upper portions of the
other, from the waist upwards, are said to have been thrown down
by an earthquake. It is popularly believed that a sound, as though
caused by a gentle blow, is heard once a day proceeding from the
remaining portion on the throne and pedestal. I myself, when I
was on the spot along with dollar Galina and numerous other fri eds



