156 Route 12. means. West Bank:

and soldiers, heard the sound about the first hour; but I was unable
to decide whether it proceeded from the base or from the statue, or
indeed whether it was deliberately produced by one of those standing round the pedestal. For as i do not know the cause, anything
appears to me much more credible than that the sound issued from
the stone thus placed'. Doubts as to the genuineuees of the phenomenon ceased soon after Strabo's time, and while that famous
geographer mentions only an inarticulate souni (6t? oi), Pausanias
speaks of a musical note and Juvenal refers to the'resonance from
the magic strings of the shattered Memnon'. By later observers the
sound is compared to that of a stroke upon metal, or even of a tram-pet-blast and of human voices singing. The sound was heard only at
or soon after sunrise, though by no means invariably then; and some
of the most distinguished visitors were disappointed of hearing it.
Among these was Septimius Severus, who caused the restoration of
the upper portions, perhaps with a view to propitiate the angry god.
Thereafter the phenomenon ceased, and the colossus, abhorred by
the Christians as a pagan idol, fell rapidly into oblivion as the new
religion spread.

Letronne has proved that the resonance of the stone is on no account
to be explained as a mere priestly trick, and in the opinion of eminent
physicists, it is perfectly possible that a had resonant stone, hand by
the warm sunlight suddenly following upon the cold nights in Egypt,
might emit a sound in the early morning A similar phenomenon has
been observed elsewhere, as by Professors Ebers under the porphyry
slide of the Sinai mountains, and by the savants of the French Expos
» dition near the granite-sanctuary at Kernels and in the granite quarries
of Aswan (Syene). An English travel!" next the Maladetta in the P reuse » heard a sound issuing from the rocks, not unlike the now 0
Amman harp, and the name given to it by the natives,'the mating of the
damned", seems to prove that it was of frequent if not regular occur
rence. The Imueiiwstoues' of the Orinoco are well-known. In the (love
valley, to the S. of Lake Nyassa Livingstone observed the thunderous
sound of splitting stones, ascribed by the natives to the agency of Moheei
or evil spirits. And the German consul, Dr. Wetzstein, reports similar
phenomena in the volcanic region discovered by him to the E. of Dan
masons. Possibly the extensive broken and sloping surface of the unless
one, not with the doves of early morning, was exposed unusually directly
to the rays of the rising sun, and the famous sound may have been prev
duced by a current of air, generated by this sudden change of temperature,
passing over the rough and pebbly surface. In that case the phenomenon
would naturally sense when the upper part of the figure was replaced.

The numerous Greek and Lam inscriptions, in prose and verse, inscribed upon the legs of the figure by travellers under the Roman empire,
are peculiarly interesting. These are more numerous on the left than on
the right leg, and none are beyond the reach of a man standing at the
foot of the statue. The earliest were carved in the reign of Nero, the
latest in those of Se timius Severus and Carmella, and the most numerous ('27) in that of Miriam Only one Egyptian (who is responsible for
a short demotic inscription) is found among these scribblers, who show
both more reverence for antiquity and more wit than their modern representatives. At the same time it must be acknowledged that the writings on the
colossus of Memnon are not Without scientific value. They were for the
most part the work of men of some eminence, including 8 governors of Egypt,
'd epistrategos of the Thebaid,'2 procurators, m. Many, though not all are
dated. Nearly all of them afford proof that only the N. a! ind m,












