Cutout of Monaco. THEBES. 12. Route. 157

famous sound. The oldest inscription dates from the 11th year of Nero's
reign .--Many of the great officials who visited the marvels of Thebes were
accompanied by their wives. Thus Lucius Junius Calvinus and his wife
minicia Rustica,'in the ith year of Vespasian, heard the phenomenon at the
second hour, though most other visitors heard it at the morning-hour,
he. at or soon after sunrise. The colossus was frequently dumb, in which
case the visitor usually waited until a more favourable occasion. Early
were so struck with the phenomenon that they were not content till they
had hand it that or four times. Hadrian, whojourneyed through Egypt
in IN A.D., spent several days here along with his wife Sabina and a
large retinue. In his reign a perfect flood of versus spread over the legs
of the colossus, most of them by the vain court-poetess Baltiifa, the descendant of a noble house, as she is careful to mention. One of her
effusions (on the left leg) relates in 16 hexameters, that Hemnou greeted
Hadrian, as well as he could Gig auvudv } when be perceived the emperor
before sunrise, but that a clearer note, like that caused by a blow on an
instrument of copper, was emitted at the second hour, and that even a
third sound was heard. Hadrian greeted Memnon as often, and all the
world could see how dear the emperor was to the god.
'Balbilla, by an inward impulse Mirror
'Has written all she saw and all she heard".

By far the best verses are those on the front of the pedestal by Ace
sleptodotns, who calls himself imperial procurator and poet. They may
be translated as follows :--~

'Sea--born Thetis, learn that Kennels suffered never pangs of dying'.

'Still, where Libyan mountains rise, sounds the voice of his loud crying'
'tNotuhtairw which the Nile-stream, loving, parts from Thebes, the hundred-gated)"When he glows, through rays maternal with warm light illuminated'.

'But thy son who, never-sated, dreadful battle still was seeking',

'Dumb in Troy and Thessaly, rests now, never speaking".

On the right leg of the colossus is a curious "Homeric" poem, inscribed
by a certain Antes, and made up of four line! from the mad and Odyssey, pieced together by the post so as to express his meaning:

'Alas, a mighty wonder I there behold with mine eyes"
(It. xiii, 99)
'Truly a god is here, a noble inhabitant of heaven!'
Chl, xix, 40)
'Loud he raises his voice, and stays the assembled multitude'.
d. xxiv, Mo;
'Never could a mortal man accomplish such a thing as this".
(Od. xvi, 196).

The mine in the neighbourhood of the colossi are unimportant.
About 3 min. beyond them is another Statue of great size, now,
however, almost completely covered by arable land. Farther to the
N.W. are very numerous smaller statues. The ruined Amcmphium,
at the gates of which the above-mentioned statues stood, has left so
important memorial in the shape of a conSpicuous colossal Sandstone Stale, erected by Amenhotep ill. it now has its broadest
surface uppermost, and is covered with hieroglyphics in the grand
style, which, with the representations, refer to the dedication of the
temple. In the rounded pediment the Pharaoh appears receiving
the symbol of life from Amman on the right, and from sokar-0siris
on the left; above are the winged san-dis: and the name of Amenhotop HI. Behind the Pharaoh in each case is his consort Tii,
adorned with the featherncrown. The first line of the inscription
contains the pompous titles of the king; the second begi l

a
o








