158 Route 13. THEBES. West Bank:

'He speaks: some to me Amman Ra, lord of the throne of the world
of E. Thebes. Look upon thy dwelling, which has been prepared
for thee in the excellent site of Thebes, whose beauty is united with
the region of the dead'. The inscription is continued in the style
of a hymn, extolling what had been done for this temple, and expressing the god's approval of the work that was here dedicated to
him. on In the neighbourhood of this stole are numerous blocks
of stone and architectural fragments, which belonged to the rich
temple of Amenhotep mentioned in the inscription. There is no
possibility of reconstructing the ground-plan of this building, and
the half~buried sphinxncolumns and broken statues present little
interest .------Still farther to the N.W., at the foot of the Libyan
mountains, two fragments of an ancient brickwbuilding, known as
JOm sb-W.US, project like huge home from the ground, and at a
distance may easily be taken for the colossi of Memnon.

13. The Ramesseum.

The *Eamesseum, better known as the Monmouium of Ramses IL,
lies about 1/4 hr. to the N.N.E. of Kha is1-EIttim The route skirts
the fertile land, and the ruin soon appears conspicuously on our
right, as we look towards the Libyan mountains. We pass a small
banal with a water-wheel worked by a buffalo, which waters the
wellmcnltiyated fields near the Ramesseum, as well as a small grove
of snot and tamarisk-trees to the E. of it. Whether it is approached
from the N. or from the L, the Ramesseum presents a most picturesque
appearance. As almost all the side-walls have fallen, it is possible
to obtain a comprehensive view of the well-proportioned arrangement of this beautiful temple and to grasp its general architectural
idea. Though time has destroyed much, it is still possible to realize
the form of its main portions, _ So far as the Purpose of the Ramos »
seam is concerned, it may he asserted with absolute certainty that
it was dedicated to the worship of the mouse of Ramses 11., and
stood in the same relation to the tomb of that prince, as the chapels
at the entrance of the rock-tombs of wealthy private citizens to the
adjoining mummywshafts (Veil, p. 170). This is clearly indicated by
the position of the monument, by the procession with images of ancestors at the festival of the staircase, on the N. part of the W. side
of the second pylon, by the list of the sons of the Pharaoh, and by
. the ceiling-carvings in the last rooms of this Memnonium. Finally
several inscriptions inform us that the Ramesseum resembled the
temple which Ramses the Great rowed in gratitude for his rescue
out of the hands of the Kheta who had surrounded him o, 161).

The question has been much discussed whether the Rsmesseum is to be
identified with the Tomb of Org/mandates, minutely described by Diodorus.
The affirmative view has been stouily advocated by Jollois and Deviltieee ia
the report of the French Expedition, and in now generally adopted in spite

of Letronue's protest. It is true that while many points in Diodorus's
description tally with the Ramosseum (rag. the colossplweéilting gsztptnee, the



