Ramesseum. THEBES. 13. Route. 359

astronomical representations eta }, others seem to apply much more closely
to the temple at Medinet Habu, built by Ramses I. who here the name
Elsewhere ascension (Osyrnandyas) as well as Ramses Ill. Among these
latter points are the lion-hunt on the temple-library (p. 167). Possibly
the explanation is that iodorus wrote his description from memory after
leaving Thebes and mingled features of both temples in his account.

The traveller will he assisted to form a judgment on the question
for himself by the following main points from the description by Diodm
Tile, nu the entrance is a pylon of coloured stone (probably granite is
intended, though erroneously), 2 plethra long (M m and 45 ells high.
Then fellows a square peristyle, with sides measuring t plethra (404 ft).
The roof is supported' not by columns, but by 16 figures of living beings,
each carved in an antique style out of a sin le stone. The entire roof
is 2 orgyia (111/2 ft.) broad, and is formed 0 solid stone, decorated with
stars on a blue ground. Beyond the peristyle are another entrance and
a pylon, amazing from the first only in having various figures carved
upon it. Beside the entrance are 3 monolithic figures of the Humane of
Syene for, according to a better reading'of stone from Syene'). One of
these, a sitting figure, exceeds in size all other statues in Egypt; at its
foot (footstool) it measures more than 7 oils. The others, to the right
and left ge'ie', r, ,1, y, of the knees of this statue, represent the sister and
mother, an are smaller then the first. This work is not only noteworthy
for its size, but deserves admiration also for its artistic beauty. It is
also remarkable for the character of the stone, in which neither a crack
nor a flaw is to be seen in spite of its unusual sire, V This pylon is
succeeded by a peristyle court which seems even more worthy of remark
than the preceding. It contains various sculptures carved in the stone,
representing the were carried on by him (the. the king) against the Bootrians, who had revolted against him'. Diodorus farther informs us that
the army consisted of 400,000 foot soldiers and 20,000 cavalry, in four
divisions commanded by the king's sons' On We am wall the king was
represented storming a fortress surrounded by a river, and hurling himself
against the enemy, along with a fierce lion which accompanied him in
battle... "in front of the last wall were two monolithic' ing nutmeg.
27 all: in height, and beside these were three exits from the peristyle, admitting to a hy ostyle, which had the form of an odeum (music-room), and was
2 plethra (502 ft.) long on each side". According to Diodorus this building
also possessed a library. The last part of the temple and its upper story
are too completely ruined to be satisfactorily compared with the report
of the Sicilian geographer.

We are able to recognize the first pylon, the caryatides in the second
peristyle court, the largest colossus in Egypt, the battle--sculptures with
the lion and the fortress surrounded by water, the hypostylc odcnm, and
traces of the library. Diodorus describes them in tolerably correct order,
but as vaguely as hasty travellers usually do who are unable to take
notes on the spot

We enter the temple by the most easterly of the three extant
Pylons. This was originally 220 ft. broad, but its ruined exterior
is now more like a quarry than a building. Many representations
are still recognizable, though much defaced, on the broad surface
of its W. Side, next the first court. Beginning our inspection with
the N. Wing (Pl. a), to the extreme left (NE) of the beholder, we
first notice the slender representations ofpinnaclcd Asiatic fortresses,
in six rows, the two highest of which have been destroyed. Fourteen
of the original eighteen are still recognizable, each with an inscription containing its name, and in some cases also the year in
which it was taken by Ramses IL The isolated inscription at the

top, to the left, is translated by Burton, Champollion, andB etch



