360 Route 13. THERES. West Bank'

es follows:'The fortress, captured by His Majesty in the 8th year;
Shalma (its name)". Lepsius suggests a different translation. Shalma
is perhaps Salem (or possibly Selena m Hierosolymai). The inn
scription referring to the second fortress from the top in the third
row to the right, reads:'Fortress captured by His Majesty in the
land of the Amour; Tapur its name'. The mention of Amdur and.
the names of the other fortresses seem to refer Taper to Palestine
(a fortress on Mount Tabor), in spite of the natural temptation to
connect Tapur with the ancient name of the Tapurs, a people
dwelling in the Margins. between Bactria and Hyrcania, and to
recall Diodorus's statement that the warlike representations on the
tomb of Osymandyas referred to the campaigns of the builder against
the Bactrians. Between the fortresses Egyptian youths appear
leading the captured Asiatic princes, most of whom are chained by
the neck, though some of them have their hands tied together
above their heads. The conquerors accelerate the steps of their
unhappy victims with stoves, and in the second row from the foot,
a young officer is shown plucking the board of an aged Asiatic.
Farther to the right, and reaching to the fallen and more or less
severely injured summit of the pylon, are some very varied military
representations, some of which are unfortunately much defaced.
To the right is a realistic battle-scene. The Egyptian chariots have
overwhelmed those of the Asiatics; and below appear fresh regiments
of Egyptian infantry, marching in step. Each soldier is armed
with a lance, a short or curved sword, and a large shield. Before
every four soldiers is a non-commissioned officer with a staff. The
command to pitch the camp has already been given, and below and
to the left of the combatants are men and animals enjoying their well-s
earned rest. Weapon and booty lie in heaps; soldiers are drinking
from leather-bottles; and others are foddering the horses and asses
The war--chariots are drawn up in two long lines, and the veterinary
surgeon is operating with a pointed instrument on the hoof of an
ass. The camp-police are using their stoves, not in jest merely,
for beside a man drinking from a wine-skin are some drunken and
roystering soldiers. Immediately above the horizontal surface,
whence the broken part of the pylon rises in steps, we see the warhorses beside the chariots, and the recumbent fighting-alien of the
Pharaoh guarding the royal tent. The chariots approach in good
order like the infantry; in the lowest row the wheels pass over
slaughtered enemies. The the extant rows of chariots excellently
illustrate the passage in Exodus xiv, 7:'And he took six hundred
chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt, and captains over every one
of them'.

The representations on the 8. Half of the W. side (Pl. h) of the
first pylon, also representing scenes from the war with the Kheta,
are even more realistic. (Other similar scenes from the Kheta
campaign are to be seen on the pylon at Luxor p-412 and in the










