temple of AbnuSimhel, p. 3350 To the left is the storming of Katesh,
a fortress on the Grantee, probably situated on an island near Hume
(Emcee). Neuter the centre, the king hurries to the fight, with
bended bow. Above the rearing and spirited horses, in his chariot
are the words:'The most excellent horse of his majesty Miamun
from the stable of Ramses 11., the beloved of Ammon'. In the inscription within the bent how the Pharaoh is named the beloved of
Mentu, god of war. The royal leader overwhelms his fees with his
impetuous attack and hurls them with their horses and chariots
into the stream. Some of the Egyptians are put to flight, and a
legion of archers hasten in climate to the aid of the Pharaoh. Among
the slain are various noble Aramaic warriors considered worthy of
being specially mentioned, for their names are inscribed above
them. One of these was Khirapasor, historiographer of the Khan;
prince, whose dead body is represented beside the hind legs of the
king's horses, between two lines of hieroglyphics. A short 12-line
inscription in front of the elaborately decorated heads of the king's
horses (the bridle is surmounted with lion's heads and feathers)
explains the exact episode'here depicted. It is the famous scene
that forms the culminating point of the Epic of Portions, that Egyptian Iliad, which we have already met with on the pylon at Luxor
(p. 112) and on the S. wall of the temple of Karnak (p. 141).'He (he.
Emma ») halted and encamped to the N.W. of Katesh. Then be pressed
against the worthless fee, the Kheta. He was alone and no other
was with him. He found himself surrounded by 2500 war-chariots,
etc.' The escape of the king from his imminent danger by the help
of the gods and his own right arm forms the subject of the epic,
which has been preserved not only upon the walk of temples but
also in a papyrus--roll. Its chief contents have been given elsewhere
o, 112). The relief before us represents this eventful moment in
the warlike career of Ramses, while a repetition of the same subject
on the W. side of the second pylon and the inscription on the
architrave in the second court of the temple, inform us that the
Ramesseum was erected by Ramses H. as a Votive Building in
gratitude for his deliverance out of the hands of 2500 enemies.

To the extreme right, in front of the horses of the king, appears
first the confused mass of men and horses overthrown by the royal
hero. Beside three Egyptians who hold an Asiatic head downward,
is the inscription:'The miserable lord of Khileb (Khahrtron-A1epp0
His soldiers pull him out of the water into which His Majesty had
cast him'. At the end of the relief the prince of the Khan; is shown
in his chariot, surrounded by unarmed followers, with the encore--panying words:'He stands still beside his foot-soldiers and cavalry.
His face turned backwards. He advanced no more into the battle
from fear of His Majesty, when he had seen His Majesty' .---Here as
elsewhere the king and his chariot are on a larger scale than the
other figures;' the Kheta prince is smaller th,,! ,):,, ,,',,, :,! P h but

BAEDEKER 3 Upper Egypt.








