162 Route 13. THERE'S. West Bank:

larger than the other soldiers .--The limestone blocks forming the
Doorway of this sandstone pylon display various sculptures and In-.
scriptions, the latter containing the usual dedicatory formulae.
The Thebes triad (Amman, Math, and Khuusu) and another kind
consisting of Ptah, Sekhet, and Esther are among the divinities
which here received sacrifices and bestowed gifts.

On entering the First Court (Pl. A) we observe that it had on
its right and left sides a double row of columns, of which, however,
only a few scanty remains are to be found on the S, To the W.
this space is bounded by the Second Pylon, new in ruins. On the
left (S) stood the Colossus of Ramses IT, PL d), the material of
which was justly admired by Diodorus (p. 59), and which really
may be termed the hugest statue in Egypt. The remarkable granite
statue (not sandstone like the colossi of Memnon) was probably
floated down the river on rafts from herein to Thebes. It has been
deliberately destroyed (apparently, from the marks at the fractures,
by means of damp wedges), though to do so must have cost its
enormous pain. In the time of Diodorus, who visited Egypt about
60 All, it appears to have been still uninjured; and we may conclude, therefore, that it was destroyed in consequence of the edict
of Theodosius, as one of the principal pagan idols. The name of
Ramses 11. appears in wellupreserved hieroglyphics on the upper
arm and on the seat of the statue, which lies close by in shattered
fragments. It cannot now be put together, as the inhabitants of'Abd
tyi-Fur) hava broken on slabs of granite and smoothed them for
the purpose of hacking their corn. The face is unfortunately completely destroyed. The remains (breast, upper arm, one foot, am)
still testify to the care with which this gigantic monument was
chiselled and polished. The savants of the French Erpedifion carefully measured the various parts, as follows: length of our 31/2 in,
surface of face from em- to ear to ear 63/4 ft, surface of breast from
shoulder to shoulder 23% it, from one shoulder to the other in a
straight line 211 /2 in, circumference of the arm at the elbow
171/2 in, diameter of the arm between the elbow and shoulder
43/4 ft., length of the index finger 31/5 ft, length of the nail on the
middle finger 71/2 inches, breadth of ditto 6 inches, breadth of the
foot across the toss, 41/2 ft. The total height seems to have been
57% m, and its total weight over two million pounds.

The colossal head of another Statue of Ramses II. was found on the
S. side of the temple farther back, and was conveyed to the Nile by
Belzoni in 1816, and thence to Alexandria. It is new one of the chief
treasures in the Egyptian Gallery of the British museum

The Second Peristyle court (Pl. B) is in much better preservation than the first court, and is mentioned with its caryafides
in Diodorus's description of the tomb of 0symandyas (p. 159). Its
general arrangement is easily understood. On all four sides were
colonnades, those to the right and left (N. and 8.) having two rows
of papyrus-bud columns and that on the E. (front) side 1, ,ll, tt, rg,, with








