Ramesseum. THEBES. 13. Route. 163

statues of Osiris, while on the W. (rear) side, the roof of the
colonnaded passage was supported by Osiriswcaryatides (facing the
court) and papyrus-bud columns. The N. and S. colonnades have
almost completely disappeared, but four caryatide-pillars still stand
on the E. and as many on the W. Towards the W. end, in the
direction of the entrance to the hypostyle hall, afterwards to be
described, a number of steps ascend from the pavement of the court
to the doorway. Standing in the doorway of the second pylon and
looking westward through the central door of the hypostyle hall
and through the smaller doorway in its farther (W) side, we could
mand an architectural perspective of great charm. The builder has
succeeded in producing the effect of distance and size by raising
the floor-level of the temple towards the W. and by gradually
diminishing the size of the doorways that succeed each other in the
same axis.

In the second court the representations on the W. Wall of the
Second Pylon (P1. e), in front of which rose the E. row of nary): tides, are of special interest. The S. side of the wall has completely
collapsed. In the midst of'the ruins project two blocks of stone,
which bear a. blue stream (to the right of the beholder in the second court).
To the extreme left, the Pharaoh, much larger than the other
warriors, dashes along in his chariot with his bow bent, This is
one of the most vigorous of the numerous battle-scenes that have
been preserved on Egyptian pylons. The leaping lion beside the
king's chariot is part of its adornment merely, though at the first
glance it is apt to be taken for the king's battle-companion preparing for a mighty leap. Diodorus perhaps had this in his mind when
he described the relief of a fortress surrounded by water, and the
Pharaoh dashing against the foe along with a fierce lion that used
to accompany him in battle. The Asiatics fall before the onset of
the king like ears of corn before a hail-storm. Huddled perl-melt
in confused heaps, pierced by arrow! or trodden down by the horses,
the Kheta fall a prey to death. The Orontes flows by the side of
the combatants and crowds of Kheta are hurled into it; warriors,
horses, and chariots sink beneath the waves. We are irresistibly
reminded of the crossing of the Red Sea by the Israelites, that took
place only half a century later.'Pharaoh's chariots and his best
hath he cast into the see: his chosen captains also are drowned in
the Red sea. The depths have covered them: they sank into the
bottom as a stone' (Enod. xv, d, 5). Farther to the right, beneath
the fortress, some soldiers hold out a rescuing hand to the dreams
ing. Everything indicates that we have here a free repetition of
the battlenscene on the first pylon. The battle rages neat Katesh,
among the slain here also are Khirapasor, the historiographer oi
the Khan prince, Kerobatusa his charioteer, Titure, chief of his
attendants, Pisa his master of the horse (Kasen), ete,









