164 Route 13. THEBES. West Bank.
Here also appear long rows of chariots, hastening to the fight. Most
decisive of all, however, is the inscription beside the heads of the
king's horses, which contains once more the passage from the epic
of Psntaur, telling us what event in the life of Ramses was commemorated by the erection of the Ramesseum. Once more occur the
words: We was alone and no other was with him. He found himself surrounded by 2500 chariots', etc.

It may be mentioned here that a series of monuments of the limites
(Khan) with picture--writing (differing from hieroglyphics) has recently
been discovered, including several blocks in a bridge at am (new in
Constantinople) and a silver plate (also found at names) with the name
of Tarrtttirnma (Tarkondémos) in cuneiform uni Khem characters In 1
Dr. Humane excavated one of the chief cities of the Khem near Binjerli,
to the NE. of Antioch. The highly important inscribed stones found
there are new in the New Museum at Berlin.

On the Upper Part of this pylon we observe the procession of
the Festival of the Staircase, in honour of the god Khem (represented
in detail at Medinet Habu and described on p. 178). The figures
which bear the statues of the king's ancestors, should be noticed.
The names besides the ancestral images are these of Menu, first king
of Egypt, and of the Pharaohs of the 18th Dynasty. From this
representation we perceive that the monument is sepulcbral. Adjacent are priests letting fly the birds into which the four children
at Home (Amset, Hopi, arts) have changed themselves, for the purpose of carrying tidings to the four quarters of the globe that the
Pharaoh has attained the crown of both worlds. Each bird is told
whither it must fly.'Haste, Amset, to the S. and bring tidings to
the gods of the S. that Horus, the son of Osiris, has obtained poem
session of the crowns of Lower and Upper Egypt'. In the next line
this is repeated with the substitution of Ramses for Home. The
other birds are despot-chad in similar terms to the N, E, and W.
Farther to the right the king appears cutting a sheaf with a sickle,
thus discharging the second Coronation-ceremony usual at the festival of the staircase.

Proceeding now to examine the rest of the court, we observe
that on the Architrave of the W. Colonnade the space usually devoted
to the dedicatory inscription is occupied by fine hiemglyphics.
After what has already been said, it is scarcely surprising to meet
once more the famous passage from the epic of Pentax": - "The
king, who abounds in strength, who chastises the barbarians and
the world of alien lands, striking them to the earth. He was alone
and no other was with him. Ramses 11., the lifea--giver, king of
Upper and Lower Egypt'. Statues of the king adorned this peristyle
court, as is indicated by the extant pedestals. Fragments of one
of these, in beautiful grey granite, lie upon the ground. The "Head,
with down-cast eyes, is a master-piece.

We ascend to the W. colonnade by means of the shallow steps
mentioned at p. 163. Behind the Osiris-columns stood finely dew
signed papyrus-bud columns, in which, however, the artistic ggoundw



