Ramesseum. THEBES. 13. Route. 165

idea was indicated merely by lightly carved root-leaves on the lower
part of the shafts. Beyond this colonuade is a *Hypostyle Hall
(Pl. 0), which can hardly, however, be identified with the odeumw
shaped hall mentioned by Diodorus in his description of the tomb
of Osymandyas (p. 159). The inscriptions call it the'Hall of the
Appearance { comp p. 85). Diodorus describes his hall as square
whereas the one before us is 98 ft. deep and 196 it, broad. The
three Entrances mentioned by Diodorus still exist, and are framed
with sculptured blocks of granite. The artistic forms displayed in
this hall are so extraordinarily congruous with each other, the dimensions so skilfully calculated, and the proportions so harmonious,
that we do not hesitate to describe it as the most beautiful hall extant in any Egyptian temple. In its arrangement it resembled the
great colonnaded hall at Karnak. In the centre a passage was
marked out by six couples of higher columns with calyx-capitals,
on each side of which were three rows of lower papyrus-bud columns. Upon the latter a wall rose as high as the calyx-columns,
with which it shared the weight of the roof, while a subdued but
sufficient light was admitted to the beautiful hall through openings
in this wail On the outside of the still standing S.E. wall of this
hypostyle hall appears the kneeling king doing Homage to Amman,
Math, and Khunsn, farther to the left Thoth writing the earn
touche of the king, and to the extreme left the king between Mentu
and Tum. Beneath is a procession of the sons of Ramses 11., only
some of whom, with their names, have been preserved. They are
found in better preservation to the right and left of the door in the
W. wall of the hall. Diodorus mentions that the odeum contained
numerous wooden statues, representing persons before a tribunal
and gazing upon the judges. Beliefs of judges, 30 in number, are
said to have been seen on one of the walls (but this has possibly
arisen from a confusion with the sons of Ramses). In the midst
of the judges appeared a presiding judge, from whose neck hung
the image of truth with closed eyes, and by whose side lay numerous
books. These statues were said to intimate by their attitudes (did
rob orbiter-cc) that the judges might accept no gifts and that the
president could look only to the truth. - That statues actually
did stand in this hall is indicated by pedestals found between the
first and. second columns in the central row. It is also by no means
impossible that a trial-scene (like the Judgment of the Dead at Dh
ei-Medina, p. 189) may have occupied the wall of one of the adjoining chambers; and it is easily conceivable that the hypostyle of the
Ramesseum, with which a library and a famous school of scribes
were connected, may have been used as a court by the supreme
college of 3115
The representations which have remained are concerned with
other subjects, while the fine inscription on the SE. Wall returns
to the war with the Kheta. The relief accompangivingghe lattpr is



