166 Route 13. means. West Bank:

distinguished for the beautiful modelling of the kings horses dashing into the fight, and for the representation of the Asiatic fortress
of Tapers, which is stormed by the Egyptians on scaling-ladders,
while the defenders are hurled headlong from the battlements. Several sons of the Pharaoh, the names of whom are given, distinguish
themselves in the battle. Two of these (towards the left) are depicted on a larger scale than the others, viz. Khanem--us, the favourite son of Ramses, and Menth, prince of the blood, each of whom
is in the act of slaying an enemy. The younger princes, Mari-Amen,
Aman-era-as, Seti, and Setters-Rs, covered with their shields,
take part in the attack (below the fortress). Diodorus apparently
had this scene in his mind when he described the Egyptian army as
commanded by the sons of the king.

The reliefs at the side of and above the portal (adorned with
the concave cornice) in the Rear Wall are in good preservation.
Each pillar is divided into four fields. In the first (top) fields the
king is shown offering to Sour-Osiris (on the left) and to PM (on
the right); in both the second fields he odors sacrifice to Amman
Generator; and in the third to Ammon-Ra as king of the gods Writ)
and to the same god as lord of heaven (right). From the fourth
fields we learn the use to which the following rooms were put; on
the left is enthroned the ibismheaded ThothmHermea, god of wisdom
and of writings; on the right (opposite) is Safekh, goddess of history

(recognizable by the'21 above her head), named here'the king's

mother Safekh, the great mistress of book-writing'. At the foot is
the dedicatory inscription, informing us that the king erected this
palatial building to his father Amman, king of the gods and lord
of heaven, prince of Thebes. - On each side of the door is a procession of youthful forms, with the lock of hair hanging to the side,
peculiar to the royal childish. Their left hands are raised, and their

right hands hold the herdsman's crook T, the symbol of princely

dignity, and the fan, the symbol of court-rank. The list to the

right is the more complete; but at the and of the procession on the
left two princesses appear, who are wanting in the other. Over the
first figures but applying equally to the others appear the full titles
of Egyptian royal princes. The first is as follows:'The fan-bat the right hand of the king, the prince and royal scribe, the leader
of the army, the great (Ur) son of the king, the first-born of his
body, his beloved Amen-tti-Kiel While this son is named the
(great) son of the king, the next one, Ramessn, is called the (great)
son of the lord of both worlds. The third prince, Ra~hi~nanemif
(Ra at his right hand) is named master of the horse and charioteer.
Fourth comes the king's favourite sou) ku-ern-moe










