Ramesseum. THERES. 13. Route. 157

mummy was found in the region of the Apts-graves of Sahhdrah.
There are in all 23 princes, of whom only the thirteenth need still be
mentioned. After the death of 12 brothers he ascended the throne
at a ripe age. As we may gather from the list to the left, this is
Mercnptoh, frequently though inaccurately named the Pharaoh of the
Exodus, whose name as king was afterwards added in the cartouohe
above him, A similar honour naturally could not fail to any of the
other princes. 0n the columns appears Ramses ll. oderingsacriflces
to and receiving gifts from the'gods worshipped in the Ramessenm',
conspicuous among whom are Amman in his various forms, Seth,
Thoth, Isis, ME, Nut, Sekhet, etc.

The Second Smaller Colonnaded Ballon, D), with four couple
of papyrus-bud columns, is remarkable for two features. The first
is the roof richly decorated with astronomical representations, proving that the Ramesseum was a monument dedicated to the worship
of the dead. The second is a representation on the N. part of the
rear-wall (the S. part is ruined), which seems to support the state-a
ment of Diodorus that a sacred library was deposited in the tomb
of Osymandyas, with the legend'HoSpital for the soul' Wort };
inmates). The Pharaoh, with all the royal attributes, sits upon his
throne. At his side rises the leafy persea-tree, with heart-shaped
fruit, upon which the king's name is being written by three deities,
via. to the left Tum on a lofty throne, to the right the goddess of
history, and behind her Thoth-mrmes, Behind Tum are the words:
'Address of Ammon-Tum, lord of the great hall (of HeliOpolis), in
the Ramesseum to his son Ramses, the beloved of Ammon. Up, for
the distinguishing of thy name to all eternity, that it may be preserved on the sacred persea-tree'. In this hall also, on either side
of the door, is a procession with the sacred boats of'Muth, Khunsu,
the deified king, and his consort.

The following Room (PI, E) is much injured, though four columns are still standing. It conning line; of offerings, and a few not
uninteresting sculptures (chiefly on the door-pillars), which seem
still farther to support the belief that we are now in the rooms of a
Library. The figures of the Theban triad are notunusual; but the forms
of Safehh, mistress of libraries, and Thoth-mrmes, the celestial
scribe (both facing the room we have now entered) are noticeable.
The god is accompanied by a form representing the personified sense
of sight, with an eye as his symbol; the goddess by the personified
sense of hearing, with an ear above his head. Thoth writes down
the resolutions and thoughts of the god, while Safekh, the goddess
of history, causes the fame of the great deeds of the past to ring in
the ears of posterity. The dedicatory inscription states that this
door was overlaid with silver-gilt (electrum), and Champoliion
found that the very low relief was formerly covered with a cloth
coated with stucco, and was then probably gilded. No traces of the
gliding is new to he found. - The side-rooms Adjoining this W.







