168 Route M. THEBES. West Bank:

portion of the Ramesseum are in a very ruinous condition, but their
arrangement may be partly made out.

Behind the Ramesseum especially towards the nw', are the remains
of a number of extensive drink Buildings, some of which were erected in
the time of Ramses 11., as we learn from the stamps on the bricks. Among
the rest are some walla-constructed vaults. As the tomb of Ramses H.
has been discovered at Bibdn clwhiuldk (p. 207), there can be no question
of his grave being here. On the other hand we learn from the papyrusrolls that a celebrated university and a seminary for scholars, comparable
to the Museum at Alexandria, were connected with the Ramesseum, and
stood at the zenith of their prosperity under Ramses and his son Mercer
ptah. The light--coloured soil, strewn with fragments of bricks and tiles,
between the Ramesseum and Shékh'Abd eluliurnah, covers a multitude of

raves whose existence is undreamed of by those who walk over them.
no 0 these, belonging to a certain Ham, contains some interesting representations, the style of which indicates (for no king is named) that it
dates probably from the early empire, and is certainly not later than the
beginning of the 18th Dynasty. We may therefore conclude that Ramses IL
built his votive Memnonium on an ancient portion of the Theban near-spells.

About 500 paces to the N. of the Memnonium we observe the
remains of an extensive well built of Nile bricks. The name of
Tutmes HI. found here on many tiles renders it probable that a
temple built by this king or dedicated to him stood on this site.

M, The Tombs of finest-Mural.

Travellers who are not pressed for time should visit one of the
tombs of Kurost-Murra'i (viz. that of Hui), on the way to Medicatiiabu. On reaching the fields of W. Thebes, if we look towards the
Libyan mountains, our eye falls upon numerous tomb-entrances.
The vaults of the Diospolites of the zenith of the ancient empire
are hcwn in the limestone hills that bound the plain of Thebes to the
W. They have recently been classified in groups, bearing the names
of the fellihmvillages in whose domain they lie. The tombs on the
slopes behind the Ramesseum are called those of Shdhh'Abd elliurnah. Following thence the undulating desert region at the foot of
the Libyan hills in a S.W. direction towards Medinet Habu, we
soon pass, on the right, the gorge of Der ohm-Medical }, and than
direct our way towards the mountain-slope, projecting between the
Ramesseum and Medinet Habu. This slope, on which stand so me
fetish hate is known to the guides as Xumet Hmei. Several of
the tombs here date from the 18th Dym, but the majority are of no
interest to the ordinary traveller. Only one, to which the guides
conduct travellers at once, is of exceptional interest (though recently
much injured). on account partly of the subject and partly of the
vivid colours of the representations it contains. Near the village
(the dogs of which are cross-grained though cowardly) is a tomb
partly converted into a stable by the fellihin. In the adjoining
tomb of HoramKhsmti are some hieroglyphics, of interest only to
the scientific traveller .--Then follow: the finest tomb in the necropolis, belonging to a certain Hui, who held the high rank of aprince







