as NILE JOURNEY.

The chartering of a private dhahabiyeh is much cheaper though
much more troublesome. The first step is to engage a Dragoman,
not without a careful enquiry as to his record at the consulate and
from the hatch-keepers, and an examination of the testimonials from
previous travellers. There are about 90 dragomans in Cairo, all
more or less intelligent and able, but scarcely a half of the number
are trustworthy. Most of them speak English or French, and a few
speak Italian.

The following are well spoken of: Eastern Spoke, Ahmed Ramadan,
Ibrahim Salem, Ahmed Ahdcrrahim (owner of the Manhattan, p. xix), Ema »
man, Salim Sadjer, Abduliah Abdellhukk (all these Egyptians); Sam: (a Nubian); Michael Gan, Anton Sapienza (Maltese)', Dneybis Pedal, Elias Tummy, and 1mm Amman (Syrians).
It cannot be too strongly impressed upon the traveller that it is essential
for him to show from the very beginning that he is and intends to remain the master. Even the best dragomans are inclined to patronize their
clients, a tendency which must at once be quashed.

The next step is to select a suitable dhahabiyeh assisted by the
dragoman. A contract is then made with the dragoman, either on »
trusting him with the entire preparations, or assigning to him only
the duty of engaging and paying the re'is and crew, while the { raw
eller retains the commissariat department in his own hands. The
ra'is "steersman is a most important functionary upon whose skill
during the often stormy passage the safety of the vessel depends.
The crew number from 8 to 12 according to the size of the dhahabiyeh. The vessel is either hired by the day (for 2 pers. 5-65., 3
or 4 pers. 6-75.) or chartered for the whole return-voyage to Assuin
(for 2 pers. 300-3506., 3 or d puts. 350-40 (V), In the former case
the dragoman will try to travel as slowly as possible to protract his
engagement; in the latter case he will pass on, so as to save
boat-hire and board. The latter arrangement is preferable, but the
right of halting for 15320 days in the course of the journey should
carefully be stipulated for. The dragoman must also provide donkeys and camels for the excursions. Farther details are indicated
in the following draftucontracts, in which it is believed that nothing
of importance has been overlooked. The contract must be signed at
the traveller's consulate, either with the dragoman alone if he has
undertaken the whole of the arrangements, or with the dragoman
and re'is, when the traveller has hired the db ahabiyeh and pays board
to the dragoman.

Contract with the Duncan. -Mr. E, and his travelling companions
on the one hand, and the Dragoman Y. on the other, have mutually
entered into the following Contract: -r

(l) The Dragoman Y. binds'himself to conduct Mr. X. and his party
irom Cairo to decade (or Wadi Halfah), and back, for the sum of
.... hunch! sterling.

(2% The Dragon )": Y, shall exclusively defray the whole travelling
expenses of the party, including the hire of the dhahabiyeh, sufficiently
manned, and e nipped to the satisfaction of Mr. x, the entire cost of
food, service ghting, pilotage, watching the boat, and all charges for
donkeys, don eye-boys, camels, and guides. __

(3) The Dragoman Y. shall provide a goodbedwithrno i'pglquaire



