Kmet Murra'i. THEBES. 14. Route. 169

of Kush (Ethiopia) and was governor of the scorn. One of the sons
of the Pharaoh used to be called prince of Kush, just as the Min
apparent to the British throne bears the mla'prince of Wales'.
Amenhotep, a brother of Hui, who appears to have shared the same
grave, is frequently named along with him. The accessible part of
the grave is shaped as in the accompanying out.

We enter by the door at T. The inscriptions are in good preservation only in the transverse chamber, 5.6. the Sepulchral chapel,
and there especially on the







rear-wall to the right (a) and f T a

left (b). On wall b appears a i l

much defaced figure of a bin g, d e
belonging to the later 18th

Dym, viz. the not altogether
legitimate Ra - kheperu - nob,
Whose throne--name was Tutank-amen-) yak-an-nes, i. a.
'Living representative of Amman, prince of the S. An'.'
Hui, who was not only prince
of Ethiopia but also chief of the S. house at the king's right
hand, stands before him and addresses him. In his right hand
is the fan, the symbol of his rank, in his left the crooked staff.
Behind him, on a table covered with costly stairs and panther skins,
are golden vases and table-services, and imitations of the most
striking phenomena of the Sudan. Among the latter are the conical
but of the characteristically represented negroes, and inhabitants
of the interior of Africa represented gathering their harvest from
the dfimwpalms that grow in thick woods, and...
driving giraffes among them. Higher up are
various precious articles; red and blue gems in

cups, rings of gold, sacks of gold-dust, shields m
covered with golden plates and gay skins, foot- (D i 5353555







WA

stools, chairs, benches, and headurests











of ebony, a costly chariot, red Jasper [ Kheuemt),
lapismlazuli, green stone, etc Five divisions of
men bearing tribute are received by Hui and l 5 I
Amenhotep in the king's Mum Brown and cash
black people from the dean are represented in

the top row. Their princess, shaded by an 11mm--"
brella, approaches in a chariot drawn by oxen, and is followed by
chiefs wearing ostrich-feathers in their hair which is plaited into
a kind of hood (as is the custom to this day among these tribes).
The procession is closed by a brown and a black Ethiopian woman,
with pendant breasts. The former carries a child in a basket on
her back, and each woman leads a nude boy behind her The










