170 Route 14. West Bank;

second row begin with kneeling chiefs from the Shah, who are
followed by white-clad Ethiopians with rings of gold, panther-names,
a giraffe, and oxen. The last have unusually variegated hides, and
each has a brown and a black human hand most singularly fixed on
the points of its home. The inscription above this procession runs:
'the great ones of Knob (Ethiopia) speak, Hail to thee, king of
Egypt, sun of the foreign peoples. We shall breathe as then perumittest and shall live according to thy pleasure'. In the third row
brown and black chiefs from Knsh bring gold and precious stones,
and semicircular fans of ostrichmfeathers, of exactly the same shape
as the flabellum which new shades the pope on certain solemn
occasions and which was formerly used by the Pharaohs. A11 on
with artificially bent home, between which is a pond with fish
and bushes, should be noticed. The fourth and fifth divisions are
much injured. They show bright red persons (Erythmans who
dwelt between the Nile and the Red Sea), Egyptians, and very light
coloured Egyptian woman with nosegays, earthen vessels, gasoline,
etc. Hui appears again on the some well. Above and beneath may
be seen the ships which brought to Egypt the choice tribute of the
south. The two richly adorned and brightly painted dhahabiyehs
(above) resemble the craft (the ornamentation of course excepted)
in which the products of the sham: are to this day transported to
the north. Five Ethiopian mince: kneel upon the deck of the second
best. Cattle and other goods are being brought to Emt in the
smaller vessels below,

on wall c appears the deceased, with the jackalwheaded Anubis
on his right and Osiris on his left, while between him and the:
are offerings to the dead. On Wall a, near the door, stands the
deceased, with his domestics, singers, 610., and two richly adorned
Nile boats behind him; still farther back is the prince of Rash again,
surrounded by his treasures" earthen vessels, skins of wild animals,
bright coloured boxes, em. Rings of gold are being received and
are weighed by a treasurer named Hornofer

0n the rear wall to the right (a) appears the king (new the
corner pillar), with Hui before him---~ Amenhotep, another prince
of Blush, is bringing pieces of lapisu-laauli on a dish. By his right
hand hangs a breast-plate, set with precious stones, like that were
by the high priest of the Jews. Behind Hui are several of those
gold and silver vessels, which at that time were manufactured by
the thnicians and Syrians with extraordinary artistic skill. Here
also are lapis~laznli, red cornelians, and priestly breast-plates. An
inscription extols the Pharaoh in emphatic terms and informs us that
Syria pays this tribute. Their appearance alone is quite sufficient to
enable us to decide with certainty as to the origin of the men here represented, casting themselves in the dust before the king, or standing
and offering him homage and tribute. Some of them are light"
coloured, others of a reddish hue; their profile is unmistakably







