Mama Ham THERES' 15.1mm 171

Semitic. All of them have pointed beards, and several have long
ringleted hair in fillets i while those of higher rank wear long robes and
short cloaks of a tine-woven, richly patterned cloth, dyed a bright
blue and red. Their feet are naked but their legs are covered to the
ankle. Nude slaves, wearing only aprons, appear among them carrying the tribute. Besides costly vessels, lapiswlasuli, and cornelians,
they also bring a lion and two splendid light-coloured horses.

On wall f, to the right of the entrance, is a representation of
an offering of flowers.



15. u Hahn.

To the S.W. of Kurnet Murra'i, and at no great distance, appears
an extensive temple-group. This bears the name of Medinet Hahn, a
Christian village which arose around and even within the ancient
sanctuary as early as the 6th cent, and of which considerable traces
still remain. On the N. side ofthe temple--ruins rise heaps of rubbish,
which we follow in the direction of the river, until we reach the
main facade, which fronts the S.E. and is as imposing as it is
curious. The traveller of experience will at once perceive that
here we have not to do with a monument erected, like the Rama?
scum, under the influence of a single continuous impulse, but with
a building begun in early times and not completed until the epoch
of the Ptolemies. The entire edifice may be divided into three
easily distinguished portions. The earliest of these is the small
oblong temple (PL N, lying parallel with the N. girdle-wall, and
founded under the 18th Dynasty. The most recent is the pylon
(Pl. K) adjoining this, with a beautiful and richly adorned portal,
seen to especial advantage by those who approach the temple from
the plain. A glance at the capitals of the two large columns rising
in front of the gateway and at the style of the inscriptions informs
the expert that this edifice dates from the epoch of the Ptolemies.
Reserving these for later inspection, we proceed first to the third
portion, the main temple.

The Mam Tasman on Mnninnr Ham; was erected as a Memosnium by Ramses Ill. of the 20th Byte, without any reference to
the previously existing temple of the 18th Dynasty. Though this
temple is beautiful and finely proportioned in many of its parts, its
architect has displayed no skill in incorporating what already existed
with the new edifice. The erroneous opinion that the temple of
Medinet Habu was a royal palace must be most emphatically contradicted. It was no more a palace than was the Ramesseum or any of
the other buildings in W. Thebes. It was a Memnonium devoted to
ancestor-worship, and its principal part wasintended for the worship
of the mouse of Ramses 111., and to remind posterity of his fame
and his exploits. The temple served also for the celebration of
festivals, including a specially important one for whose adequate






