172 Route 15. armors. West Bank .
observance the Pharoah made enormous grants and gifts, in gratitude

to the gods who had favoured him.

For Emacs ILL and his time, see Vol. L, p. so. Here it may be
briefly noted that after the reigns of Ramses IE. and his weaker son
Merenptah (under or more probably after whom the Exodus of the Israelites took place), rebels and revolutionists reduced the house of the,
restored order with a firm hand. After a reign of seven years he died,
leaving the once more prosperous kingdom to his son Ramses III. The
temple which we are on the point of inspecting is a biographical authority
of the greatest value, for its inscriptions and representations not only
inform us of the warlike achievements of Ramses 111., but enable also
the attentive beholder to form a distinct picture of the peculiarities of
the public and private life of this prince. Ramses Ill. is the wealthy
Rhampsinitus of Herodotus, the most splendour-loving of all the Pharaohs,
a timid favourite of the gods, whom he endeavoured to propitiate by
overwhelming the temples and priestly colleges with gifts, while in the
building of Medinet Habu he shows himself to have been a ruler given
over to self-indulgence. The victories men under him were important,
and it almost seems as though this luxurious ancestor of a degenerate
race recovered the manhood of his forefathers amid the tumult of battle.

a. Pavilion of Ramses m,

We first enter a kind of "Fons- « Count? (PI, A), with two small
buildings, which were probably the Porters" Lodges. Both these
and the girdle-wall stretching towards the S. are surmounted by
round pinnacles, resembling those already noted in the pictures of
Asiatic strongholds stormed by the Egyptian armies (6.9. on the ist
pylon of the Ramesseum). These small buildings bear (behind,
above the lintel) the cartouches of Ramses IL, Ramses m., and
Ramses IV. Passing between the porters" lodges, we are confronted
with another building almost in the shape of a horse-shoe, which
differs considerably from the pylons of other temples. It consists of
truncated pyramids, with almost imperceptibly sloping walls, and
a slightly receding central edifice. An excellent survey of this peculiar structure, which contains numerous apartments, may be obtained from without, as there is an open space of about'M fe between
it and the entrance between the porters' houses. The French can
plorers have given this edifice the name of Pavilion, and it is now
generally regarded as the dwelling of Ramses IIL, chiefly on M'.count of the reliefs in the interior representing scenes from the
private life of the Pharaoh { camp 13, 174). The apartments were
probably designed for the reception of the king when engaged
in festal celebrations and in ancestor--worship. As has been said
before, there were no regular royal palaces on this bank of the Nile.
The royal dwellings looked very different from the temple of Medinet
Hahn, and were never built of hewn stone. - To the W. opens the
Gate a, of lesser height. This led from the pavilion to the temple
proper, and affords a view of the first court.

The CENTRAL EDIFICE has windows and doors in every direction.
On the exterior walls of the pavilion-swings, whit W's








