Medina Habu. recess. M, Route. 173

and opposite each other, are some curious projecting heads. These
are, as is still clearly visible, representations of foreign peoples conquered by the Pharaoh, and probably served to support a balcony,
or to fasten the velar-is. which shaded the entrance to the temple.
The reliefs on the exterior walls of the pavilion are much mutilated.
On the walls facing us as we approach, of the wings b and c, we
may recognize (towards the top) the Pharaoh, holding a number of
enemies by the hair and raising his battle-axe to strike, while Ame
men Be, on the right, offer him the

sword of victory. Low down, immediately above the sloping sub
structure, are the captive princes of the conquered peoples. In
these, as in all representations of foreign tribes at Medinet Habu,
careful attention is paid to the race-type and the costumes and
weapons of the various conquered peoples. Even those who are not
Egyptologists will at once perceive that here we have to do for the
most part with tribes entirely dinerent from th ose against whom the
kings of the 18th and 19th Dyn. waned. The present pictures represent especially the western neighbours of the Nile valley, the
Libyans and the allied (and apparently related) islanders of the
Mediterranean, who even in the time of Merenptah made an expedition against Egypt, and who after their repulse returned with
new and stronger forces in the reign of Ramses HI. All are depicted
with light complexions, a circumstance as natural in the case of the
islanders as it seems strange in the case of the Libyans. The latter,
however, must be regarded as immigrants from the north, among
whom the Mashuasha played an important part. Along with the
Pelasgians, Etruscans, Danai, Sicilians, Sardinians, Oscans, etc.,
they were first conquered by Ramses TIL, and then permitted to
take service under the Pharaohs, at whose court, especially under
the 22nd Dyn., they were destined to play an important part. On
the lower part of the E. Wall of Wing c we perceive their captive
representatives beside those of the Libyans and of two other western
peoples, whose banner the Ethiopians also followed. On the E. Wall
of Wing b are captive princes of the islanders, among whom specially to be noted are the leader of the Zekkari, with a curious
hood, the prince of the'Sardinians from the sea', and of the
'Tursha (Etruscans) from the sea', whose head is adorned with a
fisher's cap.

Other representations occur to the right and left in the Narrow
Court, over which the aboveumentioned velaria probably extended.
As in all other parts of this temple, the deeds of Ramses ill. are here
celebrated. To the left as we enter, the king, bow in hand, presents
to Ammon the conquered tribes, arranged in two columns and bound
with lotus-bands. 0n the right (NO wall Ramses 111. receives the
weapons of victory from Amman. In the narrow Gateway to the
first court (Pl. a) is the portrait of the Pharaoh asthcovercomor, Of





