174 Rent: Bank:

his enemies. To the left, he again receives the scoptre and leads
behind him captive islanduprinces.

The 111111111011. of the pavilion can only be gained from one of
the walls of the court to our left as we enter. The attempt is not
without difficulty; and some of the rooms are not accessible at all.
In several of the apartments are wellmpreserved wall--sculptures of no
little interest; up. in the apartment above the passage and in the
right wing. Ramses III. is here represented in his harem. The nude
maidens with whom he is playing chose (the scene in the ruined N.
entrance-room to the right is well soon from before the facade of the
building), or who hand to him one a fig, another a pomegranate,
another a melon, another a flower which he smells, appear from the
shape of their feces and from the arrangement of their hair to be
captive princesses rather than his own children. This supposition
is farther strengthened by the occurrence here of several reproachtations of a distinctly immodest character.

The vicious propensities of this king are bbeted with biting scorn
on other monuments. He himself appears to hue looked with peculiar
pride upon his harem, which was rich in beauty of all kinds, and to have
immortalized its memory in his Memnonium. At all events his reign

marks the beginning of an epoch of luxury and immorality, upon which
decay follows close.

After passing through the gateway a, we traverse an open Space
between the pavilion and the first pylon. Before we reach the pylon,
210m wide, which conceals the first peristyle court, we pass a number of ruined walls of baked and unbaked bricks, which belonged
to the Coptic village built within the temple. In from, to the left,
is a small Temple of Ameniritis (26th Dyno, to the rights block
with the cartonohe of Nectanebus IL Buhlnd is the temple founded
under the 18th Dyn, which we visit later (p. 184). Standing on
the rubbish heap in front of the first pylon and looking through the
gateway into the temple, our view penetrates to the last court. There
is no more remarkable perspective in Egypt.

b. Large Temple of Ramses m.

The large First Pylon (Pl. C) is covered with representations
and inscriptions. First to the right we see the Pharaoh as the conqueror of his enemies, and opposite is Animus-Ra, the king of the
gods, holding in his right hand the curved sword, in his left the
sceptre, and several wall-rings surmounted by boats of their prince's,
In the first we read the name of Punt or Arabia, which, however, must be here interpreted in a narrow sense, as equivalent to
the coastlands of the Red Sea. Between the king and the group of
his enemies is the inscription:'He strikes to the earth the princes
of all lands', beneath which is a horizontal row of figures of some
tribes (partly damaged). Beneath that again is the chief Inscription,
from the lick year of the king, relating his great deeds.

All the tg'2g" e, in Medinet Habu differ from th and 19th Dyn. by their extravagant titles as gunner,



