Medinst Hate. Tuners. 15. Route. 175

immederate flattery, and the absence of fact. The "men of the conquered
nations are here recorded, but we learn few particulars of the course of
the were. The value of the booty is here and there indicated, but it by
no means corresponds to the gigantic achievements performed by Ramses 111.
according to the exaggerated representations of his priestly fiatterers.
There can be little doubt that he successfully opposed a lame of several
peoples, who attacked his kingdom by land and seat but he did not penetrate into the heart of Asia as his great ancestors did. and the critic
cannot avoid regarding um puma of Medinet Hahn as exaggerated and
unreliable. The report on the first pylon, referring to the victory of the
7th day of the month Mekhir in the year 11, contains some passages of
considerable poetic form. After relating that the enemy had intended to
settle in Egypt and to till the land as his own, the account goes on:
'Death luau? 1n Tamer (Egypt) for those, who had come on their own
fee: to the furnace, in which fire consumed impurity under the glow of
the heroism of his majesty, who ins ired terror like Baal on high. All
his limbs are filled with the power of victory... His right hand grasps
multitudes, and over those who place themselves against him his left
hand is stretched out like missiles directed against them to shy them.
His battlewscythe (mews) mightily; like his father Month .--Kapur (prince
of the Libyans), who came as one smitten with blindness to receive homage, laid down his weapons on the ground with his warriors, and cried
aloud to heaven to beseech grace (r { ebb }. His son held his foot and his
hand and remained standing in his place. But the God, who knew what
was passing in his inmost mind (what was in m mummy, fell upon
their heads like a mountain of granite... Their blood mingled with the
earth like the overflowing river', eta.

0n the S. or Left Pylon are similar representations. Between the
two flags-studs the king appears with his fettered enemies before
the god Ptah, who aims a blow at two enemies. Beneath is another
horizontal row of ten conquered people, and a stole of the 12th year
of the king imitated from a stole of the 35th year of Ramses II. at
Abu-Simbel, containing a dialogue between Fish and the king.
To the left (5.) is a colossal figure of Amman-Ra, handing the sword
of victory to the king, beside six rows-of fettered enemies.

Within the gateway (Pl. d) leading to the next court is the
name of Ramses m., engraved unusually deeply in the stone. The
Fore-scours (Pl. D), forming an approximate square of 115 ft, is
enclosed on all sides, and is not destitute of shade even at midday.
On the left (8.) are calyx-columns and on the right (N) are Osiris..
statues placed against pillars, which form galleries with the outer
walls. If we can imagine this space cleared of rubbish and ruined
walls, we can form some idea of its pristine efi'ect. Even as it is
it impresses the hammer, with its pylons to the E. and W. to shut
out the uninitiated, its colonnades to the N. and S, and its magniu
t1eent decoration in carvings and inscriptions. Here and elsewhere
at Medinet Habu we notice that want of symmetry, which is
frequently made a reproach to the Egyptian artists; but there is no
doubt that the priestly architects deliberately here placed columns
of different forms opposite each other, with the intention of dis-guising or relieving the uniformity dictated by the hieratic canon.

We now turn to the Inner Side of the first pylon. To the right
we see a long hieroglyphic inscription; below, to the left, the ghee

' nby

rash with his bow bent dashing against the foe,'ist,,, weekend







