176 Route M, THEBES. West Bank:

beautiful horse ]. The slaughter which he causes is immense, and,
so far as the vividness "the representation goes, may well be compared with the similar subjects at Kernels and the Ramesseum,
though it is inferior in point of style.'

Higher up is an inscription from the iith year of the king; and here
also the long rows of hieroglyphics are more concerned with extolling
the king than with relating events. The war in (Mashauasha)' em The leaders of
the foe are the Libyan prince Kapur and his son hldshashar. The op »
ponents of Pharaoh were (according to the inscription on the N. Pylon)
utterly routed, and lost miserably both property and life,'while the
whole earth rejoiced as it behold the heroism of King Ramses IIE' The
world bowed before the king, who is compared to Baal, who punishes
the impious. The conquered are compared to a flock of goats attached
by anion, The endless pictorial laudations of the victor are positively
wearisome, while the representations of the defeat impotence, and overthrow of the con uered are almost equally abundant. Finally the king
harangues the lea era of his foot-soldiers and charioteers, not forgetting
to celebrate in swelling words the deeds that he himself has done. The
number of prisoners and min (the latter with their hands, am, cut on)
is recorded. One of the lists accompanying the inscription included one
prince of the Hashauasha, 5 superior officers, 1205 common soldiers, UN
inferior officers, IN young men, use in all. Also 342 wumen 66 young
women, 151 girls, 558 in all. These figures give a total of% 2 persons.
Besides these 2175 Hashauasha. were slain by the his in their ranks.
The total loss of the enemy was thus not more than 4 persona. The
number of captured swords, bows, chariots, em, corresponds: 115 large
swords, 124 smaller, 803 bows, etc.

Another series occupies Lhe bauk-wall r)! the colonnade on the right
(NO side of the court, supported by seven pillars with the Osiris-figures
of the king. The uppermost row contains sacrificial scenes. The first of
these depicts the king, who has alighted from his chariot, shooting his arrows
against a hostile fortress occupied by warriors (the town Assure, recalling
the emeritus). In the next scene the king drags three rows of prisoners
behind his chariot. He is congratulated by the grandson. Finally he
presents the captives to Amulet }, Much, and Khumu,

The inscriptions and sculptures on the Second Pylon (PI, E),
enclosing the rear of the court, are still more interesting. To the
left are Amman Re and Math, the great queen of heaven, to whom
Pharaoh, wearing a richly decorated crown, leads three rows of
captives chained together. The two upper rows have distinctly
European features, and wear embroidered aprons and low helmets.
Over the first row no name appears, but according to the inscription
before Pharaoh, they are Shahalsha, he. probably Sicilians. The
captives in the second row are called Tanauna or Danauna, a name
in which we are probably correct in recognizing the'Danai', or
Hellenes of the Trojan era. The third row, in which the individual
figures resemble those of the other two, is accompanied by the
following inscription:'Provide breath for our nostrils, 0 king, son
of Ammon, say the fees from Pulasata'. In these Pulasata we must
recognize the Philistines, new and no contemptible fees of Egypt.

On the Right Wing of the second pylon is another long inscription devoted to the deeds of the king in the 8th year of his reign.

Here also facts are alumna try empty titles and elaborate trifles,
recited in praise of the king'His form, hisrlimbs', runs the fifth line,
'have been weighed in the balances of Baal; he come










