NILE JOURNEY. xxi

(mosquito-curtains) for each member of the party, with all necessary bed
and table linen, table-equipage, and implements in good condition. Each
person shall have two clean towels every four days, a clean table-napkin
every second day, and clean sheets once a week.

(a) The Dr (mun y. undertaken the entire provisioning of Mr. X.
and his party. The following mull shall be served daily: 1. Breakfast,
consisting of tea, coffee, or chocolate (at the travellers' option), bread.
butter, biscuits, eggs, marmalade or whatever the traveller is accustomed
tor, 2. Lunch, consisting of..." Dinner, consisting of.... [ The traveller may adjust the bill of fare to his taste, but it may he remarked
that lilie--voyagers usually enjoy an excellent appetite, and that a choice
of several dishes affords an agreeable variety without adding much to
the cost. For lunch 23 courses are usually demanded. and for dinner
soup, 3 comes, and desert ] All the dishes shall be well~cooked and
properly served. Fresh bread shall be baked every second day. For each
guest invited by the travellers to breakfast the dragoman shall receive
3 fr., for each guest at dinner 4 fr.

(5) A lighted lamp shall be affixed outside the dhahahiyeh at night.

(6) A small boat in good condition shall accompany the dhahabiych,
and shall be at all times at the disposal of the travellers, with the necessary crew. Two or more sailors shall accompany the travellers when
the latter desire to land, and shall serve as watches or porters when
required.

(7) The dhahabiyeh shall be maintained in a good and efficient condition. The deck shall be washed every morning.

(8) The Dragoman Y. is responsible for the maintenance of order
among the crew; and he shall take care that both the crew and the attendants are quiet at night so as not to prevent the traveller: from sleeping.

W) When the wind is unfavourable, the dhahabiyeh shall be towed
on the way upstream or rowed on the way downstream.

The Dragoman Y. is alone responsible for any damage that may
occur to the dhahahiyeh or the small boat.

(it) No passenger or goods shall be received on board without the exprms emission of Mr. X.

(i) The travellers reserve to themselves the right of halting for
mac days in the course of the voyage, without extra charge, at such
times and laces as they may select. Halts of less than 2 hrs. shall not
be reckons l but the travellers will not avail themselves of this exception
oftener than once a day.

(13) The travellers shall have the right of halting for more days than
are stipulated for in paragraph 12, on condition of paying so fr. each
pen. for each extra day. in addition to the heat-hire. Thee it the dimhabiyeh has been hired for 302. per month or 25 fr. per day, a party of
'd perm, would pay for each extra day 3w+25==85 fr.

(lhlmbiyeh reaches a spot during the night, at which
the Dragoman Y. has been instructed to stop, a halt must be made; and
the day's halt to be reckoned to the traveller shall not be in until sunrise.

wo The Ra'is shall have the right of halting for hears on two
occasions for the purpose of baking bread for the crew. These periods
(4811",) shall not be reckoned against the traveller; nor shall any other
halt not expressly commended by Mr. X., whether due to bad weather or
any other cause, he so reckoned. The halt for baking shall he made at
Amati". and not at Girgeh (comp. p. 52 }.

{ 13) One-third of ma 1? g'it', price shall be paid to the Dragoman
Y. before the commencement of the voyage; one-third during the voyage;
and the remaining third on its completion. [ Or one-half before the voyage
is b an and onahalf on its completion }

(T) in the event of disputes or difference; in carrying out this contract, Me. X. and the Dragoman Y. hind themselves to submit unconditionally such disputes or dilemmas to the arbitration of the consul,
before whom it has been signed.

18) The voyage shall begin on such and such a day.

on follow the signatures of the traveller and the d "








