Mamet Habu. THEBES. 15. Route. 177

and there is none like to him'. Of the enemy, through whose discomfiturc
he won so much praise, it is said that they worshipped him as soon as
they heard of his bravery, that they threw themselves on the ground at
his feet, etc. He is compared with Ptah, Osiris, Sha, and Ba. In line "
the king addresses his faithful followers, telling them that Amman has
lent him his throne, power, strength, and victory. In line 16 the nations
that were unable to resist the attack of the islanders are named. Of the
latter it is said:'No people made head against their arms, from the land
of Kheta to Kati, Kirkamasha (Earkhemiet0, Arm" (Arming, and Areas
(Assyria). They assembled in the land of Amara (Amorites?, they overcame the people and the land as though they did not exist. They came,
and a fire was prepared beforehand for those who had turned their faces
towards Egypt'. Amen these fees, as line 18 recounts, were the Pnlasata
(Philistines), Zekkari (eucrians'2), ShakaIsha (Sicilians), llananna (Danni),
and Uashaaha tt Oscans according to Cliches). Their hearts were high, and
they were filled with their puma: Bu: the king of Egypt laid a snare
for them. God stood by him. He firmly maintained Zaha (Northern
Syria) as his frontier. The battle must have taken place in Egypt itself.
The king barred the mouth of the File as with a wall with well-manned
ships, and attached the enemy with land-forces and chariots, treading
them to the ground. The king boasts that he had fun t like Month at
the head of his troops, acting like a champion (ustennu, that knows his
strength, like a brave warrior, that saves his people in the day of battle.
'Those who reached my borders reaped no more harvests on earth". He
strewed their corpses along the bank; their ships and goods sank in the
waters.'1 made the lands go back, to remember the land of Eg pt, chanting my name in their lands'. In line 25 he extols himself am; claims to
have taken their lands from the barbarians, to have made their borders
his own, and to have received the homage of their princes. He orders
general rejoicing, calms the hearts of his followers, and estate his own
strength. At this point the inscription is interrupted by a gap in the
fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh courses of masonry from the top. The
remainder conning; nothing of interest.

The granite gateway of the second pylon admits to the Colonnaded
Ball (Pi. F), which presents a curious appearance owing to the
prostrate columns of a Christian church, erected here at an early
period and destroyed after the spread of Islam in Upperngypt.
This second court is a specially retired enclosure, in which the
slightly projecting concave cornice, running round the entire open
space of the square hall, produces the finest sheet. It is 1'25 it.
long and 138 ft. broad. On all four sides is a colonnade.

The roof is supported on the N. and S. by columns, on the E.
by a row of carystides, while on the W. the rear is closed by a
passage, with eight csryatide-pillsrs in front and eight columns behind. An inscription at the top of the inner side of the left (F)
pylon informs us that this was the Foetal Hall proper; while the
same fact is to be gathered from the sculptures on the back-walls
of the colonnades. Turning first to the right we see in the upper
row a series of "Representations, beginning at the N.W. angle of
the hall and running all allong the N. side and on the E. side as far
as the entrance. This illustrates the beautiful Fawn". 9y um
Suzanna, which was celebrated in honour of the god Khem. It
took place in the month Pakhon, he. the first harvest-month, and at
the new moon. The course of the moon was represented as a staircase with fourteen steps (days), hence the name of the festival. It

BAEDEKER'S UP?" Egypt. 12





