178 Route M, THEBES. West Bank:

was sacred to Khan, is. Amman during the process of his saith-procreation, and may be regarded as one of the greatest of the Egyptian
festivals, as even among the representations in the Ramesseum and
elsewhere a conspicuous place is given to it. It might well be solemn-iced in a Memnonium, for Khem caused the new birth of the dead
god, and the soul separated from the body arose to new life, as the
vanished orb of night returns at the new moon. As the inscription
of Ammon-yr-het says, the heir to the throne succeeded the dead
Pharaoh on the following day, just as one moon succeeds another
after a moonless night. The inscription above the reliefs would still
preserve for us their subject even if the latter had disappeared. It
runs as follows:'In the month Pakhon, at the festival of the god
Khem, at the appearance of the light of the Moon-god, The king,
crowned with his helmet, comes in his litter. The body-guard goes
before him. Each bears at his side shield, spear, and sword. The
lords of his retinue, the higher and lower officers, come behind him,
and after them the princes and warriors. The chief orator of festivals (kherheb) conducts the festival of his father Khan }, while the
king presents to his father Khem great offerings of bread, beer,
cattle, geese, and all good things. KhemLthe lord of Son, is brought
forward, and his son Ramses Ill. advances before him. The god
wears the double feather on his head, and about his neck a finelyworked chain from which at his left arm hangs the portrait of the
goddess Ma. The kherheb strikes up a dance, the choirwmaster
{ chief singer) does his duty, and the Arabian negro praise the
god. Then also appear before the god his vowed servants, with portraits of the kings of Upper and Lower Egypt, as the divine ancestors. No more follows, for the god places himself down upon his
staircase, and His Majesty offers a great sacrifice to his father Khern,
the consort (hull) of his mother. Behold, there also is the white
hull before His Majesty, eto.'... In presence of the living king and
of the royal ancestral images an attendant brings the black blade of
a sickle inlaid with gold, and a shoot of corn, and presents them to
the king. Then the ranger (mamit), walking round the king seven
times, says'The king has reaped with the sickle that is in his
hand, he raises it to his nose, he lays it down before Khem, who
gives the king the harvest. The king quits the staircase, turns to
the N., and walks round the staircase, etc. m- "We shall now see how
this description is illustrated by the reliefs.

I"Procession at the beautiful Festival of the Staircase. This
very interesting series begins to the left (W.), on the rear-wall of
the N. colonnade. First appears the Pharaoh, on a throne--shaped
litter adorned with figures of lions, borne by 12 grandeeo, of whom
four are princes of the blood. Attendants wave fans; and three
smaller figures with feather-mas are supposed to be marching by
the side of the litter. Behind the Pharaoh are the two goddesses of
rewarding and punishing justice, with trut-spread wings, and with






