mam: Balm. THEBES, M, Route. 179

the feather of truth on their heath In two rows before and behind
the king appears the rest of the procession. In the upper row (before the king), a drummer and a trumpeter turn towards the gran-dees of the kingdom, who wear the double feather on their heads
and many in their hands the symbols of their power. The last of
these, a bald priest, with a censor turns towards the king. A
short inscription explains that he is offering incense to the Pharaoh,
and names him the fan-bearer at the right hand of the prince, the
royal scribe, general, and crown-prince, whom he (Ramses) loves.
In the lower row are various dignitaries, preceded by two young
princes. These, according to the inscription above, are'the royal
relatives of the king, young and old; great and worthy, all (who
have appeared) to march before his majesty as he proceeds in his
litter, in order to cause his father Khem to be carried in procession,
at his beautiful festival of the staircase'. Immediately before the
king is a priest, turning towards him and offering incense, and then
the orator of festivals (kherheb),'who performs all his customary
ceremonies before the king at his solemn procession'. Behind the
king, the procession is also arranged in two rows. In the upper
row are dignitaries, with the symbols of their rank, and armed
warriors; in the lower, royal princes, fan-bearers, and pastophori
with portions of the sacred staircase and cases containing sacred
vessels. At the and of the relief is a kind of grated door, with
a vertical inscription in front of it, to the effect that Wis Majesty
arises solemnly, like the sun's disc, from his dwelling of life, constancy, and power (in other words, his palace). The king betakes
himself in his litter to the abode of his father thm, to gaze upon
his beauties". Then follows the main object of the procession, he.
the image of the ithyphallic Khem, who here stands beneath a
narrow crowned with Uraeus-snakes. Farther on towards the E.
wall, the image appears home by priests on a stand covered with
a gailyucoloured carpet and adorned with enormous wreaths of
flowers. The priests, who were aloft fans of different shapes, are
completely covered by the carpet, with the exception of their heads
and feet. Behind and a little above, two priests spread out a sail,
the emblem of breath, freshness, and joy, and beneath them four
others bear a chest with five ornamental trees. Before the former
figure of the god the king, offering incense and drink-offering,
wears the helmet of the ruler of Upper Egypt; while before the
image on the covered stand the Pharaoh, bearing a staff and sceptre
and following a white bull, wears the crown of Lower Egypt. Above
him hovers the vulture of victory (as in nearly every place where
the king appears in the present series), bearing in its talons the
symbol of the innumerable periods, which (according to the inscription beneath) Ammon-khern has bestowed upon the Pharaoh
for his appearance at the festival. An inscription in front of the
sacred bull names it'the white bull'. Its horns are, shape like

a",





