180 Route 15. races. West Bank:

the crescent moon and enclose the disc adorned with the double
feather of the goddess of truth. Above the bull and the following
procession are two hieroglyphic inscriptions, between which are the
portraits of the first favourite and queen (whose name, however, is
not given in the cartouche in front of her), and of the kherheb,
with an open volume, who is called the president of the singers
and the chief of the festival craters, etc. The hieroglyphics above
the bull contain a hymn, in which the hherheb crisis the god
Khem. And in the inscription turned towards the singer, the
praise of the god and of the bull symbolizing him is also sung in
words placed in the month of the god Thoth. m A long train of
standard-bearers precedes the bull. Between these and the bull a
priest facing the latter, with the censor (the Horns-hand), and the
festival- « orator in the act of reciting The series on the N. wall end »
at the tenth standardubearer, but it is continued without interruption on the E. Wall. Besides the usual emblems, sacrificial vessels,
and ancestral statues, images of sacred animals on standards are
borne along. The bearers of the hawk, vulture, dog-headed ape,
and bull are clad in curious sleeveless garments, covering them from
neck to foot. The procession advances towards the Pharaoh, who
awaits it, wearing the double crown of Upper and Lower Egypt,
and holding in his hands a staff, arrow, and sceptre. On a table in
front of him stands a staff with the double feather, and the sacred
wreaths; and before his eyes takes place the ceremony of letting
four geese fly, usual at the coronation of the kings of Egypt. The
gases, which here, as in the Ramosseum, have the names of Amset,
Hopi, ate, the children of Home, attached to them, are to announce
in all quarters of the globe the accession of the new Pharaoh. The
kherheb here appears, declaring that the goose must hasten to the
N "8., E, and W., and announce to the gods of those regions that
Home, the son of Isis and Osiris, that the king etc. Ramses 111.,
has assumed the great crowns of Upper and Lower Emt. Behind
the orator four, and below him three priests carry the images of
the predecessors of Ramses ILL, each with its name. Above the first
of the men bearing standards with the jackal sands a figure clap"
ping its hands, which is named the Nehee on Punt, he. the Negro of
Arabia, and which is regarded as the personification of the moonless night preceding the new moon. This curious figure greets the
god Khem, lord of Sena, ets, at whose approach every heart or. »
panda with joy. Farther to the right we see the Pharaoh, who (as
in the Ramesseum, p. 164) cuts with a sickle the sheaf held out to
him by a priest. Behind stands the kherheb and his hymn, relating
to Khem. Almost above the sheaf is the queen, than before the
Pharaoh the white bull again, and beneath it a row of images of
ancestors. Finally the king odors incense to the god Khan, who
stands beneath a canopy, and presents to the ithyphallic Khem the
image of justice, the goddess m.








