Medical Hahn. THERES. M, Route. 181

The lower series of representations on the N. and E. wane are
less interesting. Several boats appear in them, and beneath them
(to the extreme left) the foetal--barge of Ammon. A dialogue between the king and the god Amman, in which the building of the
temple is extolled, also occurs here.

Corresponding to the festival of Khem on the N. and E. walls,
a Festival ofPtnhan'okar-Osiris is displayed in the upper row of the
S. and SE. side of the colonnade. It begins to the left of the door
with a train of priests of various forms, bearing standards and
arranged in two rows. Next appears the king, to whom incense is
shared, and above whom hovers a vulture. Then follow dignitaries,
succeeded by a colossal symbol of the god Nefer Tum, borne by
18 priests. The hherheb reads 16 formulae of invocation After
him come 16 exalted personages, including the king's sons holding
a cord which reaches to the hands of the king. Then follow 16
priests bearing the barge of Ptah--Sokar---Osiris; and finally the king
before Khnum and PtahuSokarauOsiris.

More interesting than th use foetal representations are the Warlike
Beliefs, in the lower division on the S. and E. walls. The inseriptione relate the conquest of the Libyans and the annihilation of
the N. tribes of the Philistines and Zehkari, who had penetrated
into the Nile delta and were there captured by the king. One of
the reliefs on the exterior of the N. wall represents this occurrence.
The inscription contains 76 lines and covers a considerable part of
the S. wall. The lot Scene to the left of it depicts in four rows
the captured Libu, conducted by the king's sons and other notabilities. One counts and another note: upon elect the number of hands
and phalli outed, which in both cases is given as 3000. The king seated
in his chariot and turning his body, addresses his sons and officials .---~
2nd Scene (to the left of the first). The king standing in his chariot
shoots an arrow against the falling foe:'He sees defeat like a flame
beneath them; he holds the how in his right hand and lenses the
arrow with his left; he goes against them, knowing his own strength.
Face to face, he smites a hundred thousand. The hearts of the
Tomlin, their life, their soul have ceased'....... .. 3rd Scene. The king
drives, with his enemies in fetters. Beneath marches a row of his
soldiers, armed with spear, shield, and knife .--dth Scene (next the
door in the E. wall). The king, standing, brings three rows of
captives into the presence of Amman and Muth. In the four lines
between him and the gods the captives are described as Temhu and
Mashanasha (Maxyans); and in the small inscription above the top
row as Rabi ] or Libu' (Libyans). W Go the W. or Rear- Wall of Hall
F, to the right and left of the door to the next hall, are portraits of
the king's sons, with their names; on each side the same number
(10). Those who afterwards came to the throne have the royal
cartouche.

We now enter the Second Hypostyle Hall (B120 Th roof, was






