182 Route M. THERES. West Bank:

formerly supported by "columns in 4 rows of six, of which the central row was considerably thicker than the others. The roof, however,
has long fallen in, and nothing remains of the columns save the plinths
and the lower part of the shafts. Two smaller chambers follow,
with four couples of columns, and then a Central Apartment with four
pillars. On both sides these are adjoined by a series of rooms (comp
PL), of which those to the N. are accessible, those to the 8. covered
with rubbish except the two front apartments on. g). A special
door leads from the colonnaded hall to the latter, which are arranged
differently from those on the N. These rooms have been carefully
examined by Prof. Diirniehisrti and from the inscriptions in and near
them they are now known as the TREASURY of this Memnonium of
Ramses 1H. Even on the external walls of these apartments are
artistic representations of vases, jars, and other vessels in the precious

metals.

The INTERIOR of the treasury consists of a hall turned towards the t,
widowed on each side by two chambers. The inscriptions without exception
relate to the gifts of gold, silver, electrum, malachite. and
other stones which Ramses III. extravagantly heaped upon Amman, so
that'the offering of his gifts found no end'. Even those visitors who do
not understand the inscriptions will at once recognize that they are in a
treasure-house, from the representations which adorn all the walls, especially

those of the chambers on the right. The hieroglyphic W ] nub means
gold and'V nub her white gold or silver. Whole heaps of these metals

are seen lying in grains or nuggets. Sacks of gold from different lands and
all kinds of precious vessels meet the eye. Pieces of lupin-lazuli and
malachite shaped like brick: are built up in stepped mum, each in three
rows. Arabian indiarubber (Kathi) and the tree whence it is obtained are
also depicted. In the chambers on the right appear also sheets of silver,
and plates of brass and lead. The Pharaoh boasted ceaselessly that he
had tilled the tremors--house of his father Amman; and the god Thoth
(in the second chamber to the right) writing reckons it by the countless
hundreds of thousands and lens of thousands (a million altogether) in
silver, gold, brass, lupin-lazuli, malachite from Ream; (Sinai Peninsula),
etc., which he has offered to his venerable father Ammon-Ra, king of the
gods, who on his side has accorded to the king the periods of Ba and the
years of Tum .--It is impossible not to recall the passage in Diodorus's
description of the tomb of Osymandyas (p. 159), in which the king is
represented as offering to the divinity gold and silver to the value of 82
million mines.

Ramses III. was no other than the rich Rhampsinitus of Herodotus
(H, 1213; and it is not impossible that we here stand before the very
treasure-hears of Rhamprinites which figures in the pleasant tale narrated
by the Father of History.

Rhampsinitus the Pharaoh was possessed of such vast treasures that
he commanded a builder to erect for their safe custody a stone building
beside the palace. The architect coveted the treasures, and being a cunning
man so arranged a stone in the wall that two men, or indeed one, could
easily withdraw it. Before his death he impacted the secret to his sons.
These immediately on the death of their father betook themselves to the
treasure-house, removed the stone, and favoured by the darkness of night,
succeeded in carrying "a large amount of treasure. They repeated their
visits, until the king remarked that his treasure was decreasing, without,
however, being able to accuse anyone of the theft, as he invariably found
the seals unbroken and the doors fut Locked. [ Ea maxim l








