Medical Hebe. THEBES. M, Route. 183

constructed and placed it beside the chests containing the gold. The
thieves once more came, and the one who entered first was caught in the
trap. Perceiving what had happened to him, he conjured his brother to
em on his head lest he should be recognized, and so bring his accomplice
into trouble. The advice was followed, and the brother departed with
the head, denim; the opening behind him. The next morning the amazed
king discovered the headless corpse in the securely fastened room. He
resolved to angers the body in public, under the care of a guard who
had orders to o serve the pastors-by very closely and to men immediately
anyone who showed signs of grief at the mournful spectacle. The architect's widow, who had learned the occurrence, was, as a true Egyptian,
beside herself at the dishononrable treatment of her son's body, and
threatened to reveal all to the king unless the surviving brother contrived
to bring the corpse to ban Thus many youth soon hit upon a plus He
loaded an ass with wine-skins, three of which he opened "not as he was
about to pass the soldiers guarding the headless trunk. hen the wine
began to escape, he broke into loud lamentation Which soon attracted
the soldiers. They hastened to catch the wine in cups, and drank it up
in spite of his pretended opposition. Finally the hypocrite appeared to
reconcile himself to his fate, and pressed the soldiers to drink until they
fell helpless in a drunken sleep. He then shaved off the right side of
each man's beard, and taking possession of his brother'a body, brought
it to his mother. - The king though enraged, was now devoured with
mummy to discover the author of this trick. He accordingly commanded
his daughter to seller the love of anyone who consented to relate to her
his craftiest and wickedest deed. It any of her wooers should relate the
above incident, she was to seize him and cause his arrest. The admit
thief, no whit alarmed, procured the arm of a corpse, placed it under his
cloak, and going to the princess, related his adventures with the treasure
and the soldiers. When the princess sought to seize him, he thrust the
dead arm into her hands, and escaped. The king, astonished by such
cunning and boldness, caused a proclamation to be made that he would
not only pardon the thief but reward him if he revealed himself. Upon
this the architect's one presented himself.'Rhampsinitns expressed his
admiration and gave the princess as wife to him as the craftiest among
men; for, said the king,'the Egyptians excel all other men in craft, and
he all the Egyptians'.

The immense wealth of Raining W. is a historical fact. We have
seen representations of it in the rooms which we have just quitted; and
this Pharoah records in the great Harris Papyrus his donations to the
temples of Egypt, donations so enormous that we are justified in describing the giver as the wealthiest prince that ever set on the throne of the
Pharoahs.

At the N. side of the hypostyle we emerge into the open air and
examine the interesting representations on the outside of the N,
Wall Fl, e). Between the N.W. angle and the second pylon, there
are Tea Beliefs, which are described and illustrated in the works
of Champollion and Rosellini. At present the three first (to the W.)
are covered with rubbish.

1st doses. Procession of Pharaoh, besides whose chariot a lion advances.
In another chariot before that of the king is the standard of Ammon-Ra
With the ram's head. - 2nd Scene. Fierce battle, the Mashenesha turn to
Bee. H m: Sam. The king harsngnes fire rows of soldiers, who bring
captive Mashanasha and Libn. The severed hands em. are counted,
amounting to 12,535. - 4a Scene (the first uncovered, from the right).
Standards are brou ht out and weapons distributed to the soldiers. The
king orders the are are to shoot so as to destroy the enemy. - m Scan,
The king sham; before him march soldiers
with lances and bows. A small doorway, above which we Comic cranes.
made through the horse, conduct; to the hall behind. The
king, standing in his chariot, shoots arrows against th "0










