184 Route M, THERES. West Bank:

identified as Zekkari (Tenor-lens) from the curious striped. cape, not unlike
an Indian headdress. In the middle, among the latter, are oawvvsggons with
children in them. Some of the Egyptian soldiers are Shardana, distinguished
by the conical ornaments on their helmets. These, at first enemies of Egypt,
a terwerde took service under the Pharaohs. - in. Same (beyond a gap
in the wall). The king at a lion-hunt, One of the lions, concealed in a
thicket, has been pierced by the king's spear and arrows; another lies
dying beneath the horse's feet; and the king turns to transfix a third, of
which only the claws are shown. Beneath is a procession of the Egyptian
army with allies (Shardana and Kebab). The king, having
alighted from his chariot, shoots against the hostile fleet. The painting
illustrates the occurrence mentioned in the inscription of the 8211 year,
on the second pylon (p. m) as well as in the long inscription in the
colonnaded room. The hostile Shardma 3nd 2ekesei (Sardinians and
Teucrisns) had penetrated into the Nile delta, where they were held me,
like him in a not, by the Egyptian army, until they fell beneath the arrows
of the king and his followers. We may clearly distinguish the Tencrians
by their caps resembling tufts of feathers, the Shardana by their horned
helmets, and the Egyptians by their laced hmdocloths. The representation
is exceedingly animated, though not very distinct in the oblique light.
One of the ships his capsized. The Egyptian vessels are denoted by the
lion's had on the prow, The ship below to the right is steered by two
men with large om, while the rest of the crew are mum salted upon
benches. Archers standin up ply their bows. In the interior of the ship
are a number of boned eucrians, and others appear in the lower row.
The king himself is treading upon a captive too. In from of him are
some archers, and above him the protecting vultum Uni _ 99. - WK Scene.
The king, having magma from his chariot, graciously receives the grandma
who conduct the prisoners. In the lower row the severed hands are
being counted and the number noted. Above the born: a fortress is
represented, named diskettes (Migdol castle) of King Ramses. 10th Scene.
The king presents two rows of captives, described as Zekheri (Tenor-inns)
and Robe (Libyans), to Amman, Math, and Khnnsn, the Theban triad.

We have now reached the second pylon, between which and um um
pylon are two more Beliefs. One represents the king attacking a hostile
fortress, whose defenders, many of whom are pierced with arrows, beg
for mercy. The other depicts the king waving his sword, at the
head of his charioteers, as he attacks a ortress. Some of his soldiers
are beating in the doors, while others second by ladders. Trees are being
felled in the vicinity

On the outside of the 8. Wall (P). n of the temple is A Ion Festival
Calendar, which contains a list of the appointed sacrifices for t e period
between the 26th Pakhon (the day of Ramses 11133 accession) and the 19th
Tybi. The mention of the rising "Emma (Sirius) on the 1st Thoth
(beginning of the year) hag led to the probably erroneous assumption that
under Ramses m. the Sothis-year of 3851/4 days coincided with the
Egyptian civil year of 865 days, and has thus provided a fixed era for
Egyptian chronology.

c. The Small Temple of mama Hahn.

We now quit the large temple, beside which we note the con » siderable ruins of the Christian village, whose church stood in the
second court (p. 177). We retrace our steps between the pylons,
and to the left we see the smaller temple, founded under the 18th
Dym, the oldest part of the remains at Medinet Habu. Even if the
inscriptions had been defaced, the architectonic forms here used
would have told us in what epoch of Egyptian history the building was
erected. Its axis is not exactly parallel with that of the temple of
Ramses. The small temple was entered from the E It is an open







