means: Habu. 15. M, Route. 185

question how the semis were originally arranged, which preceded
the actual sanctuary. Little of them remained, and the later Pharaohs.
and even the Ptolemies and Roman emperors (notably Antoninus
Pine) extended the old building. The following description begins
at the E. facade, which faces us when we turn to the left (N.) after
returning through the gate of the sn-called pavilion.

The visitor approaching from the Nile is confronted with a handsome Pylon (PL K), to the N. of the entrance to the temple
of Ramses. In the centre is a beautiful gateway, with a wellexecuted winged disc of the sun in the deep concave comical The
narrow fore-court in front was enclosed under the Ptolemies with
columns, of which only the two at the entrance have been preserved
(beside H. I). In the broader fore-court outside (Pl. H) the car-n
touche of the emperor Antoninus Pius occurs several times. The
large Pylon (Pi, E) dates from the late Ptolemaic epoch, for it exhibits Ptolemy Seter IL Lethyrus worshipping the gods; but it includes stones from an earlier edifice, some of which are upside down
and some show detached fragments of inscriptions (cg. sacrificial
lists, with the names of Ramses 11.). Beyond the pylon is a Chapet
CPI, L), only 30 ft. long, dating from the reign of Nectanehus IL,
who was acknowledged as king by the Egyptians in the middle of
the Persian epoch. The roof was supported by eight columns which,
however, have disappeared, leaving only the low walls which connected them like screens. Immediately adjoining the chapel is a
Second Pylon, 50 ft. wide, which was erected under Taharka the
Ethiopian (25th Dyn.) and renewed and provided with inscriptions
by Ptolemy Lathyrns. On the front of this pylon appears Nectanebns IL, on the back Taharka. Beyond this is a ruined Court
(Pl. M), with (to the right) the granite lintels of a gateway, built by
Petamenap, a noble living under the 26th Dyn, to whom the
large tomb at elmAsaeif (p, 222) belongs. We now at last reach the
OLDEST TEMPLE BUILDINGS, begun under Amenhotep l. and Tutmes L, completed under'Ramaka, Tutmes W, and Tutmes 11L, and
restored by later kings, including even Ptolemy Physhon. These
late restorations were of trifling importance; as a whole the building is beyond doubt a work of the 18th Dynasty. It consists of a
Sanctuary (PI. N), like the cella of a Greek temple, forming the
kernel of the entire edifice, surrounded on three sides by pillars,
while on the rear it is" adjoined by Six Apartments. Between the
rows of pillars to the right and left and the cella, and also behind the
latter, were polygonal columns, resembling those which are to be
found "Benihasan and the oldest parts of Karnak. Those in
front have been destroyed, but one has remained erect behind
the cella. The inscriptions are written for the most part in the
beautiful style of the 18th Dym. but contain nothing of importance.

The Batman" Inscriptions, found on various parts of the temple, are

interesting as throwing light on the HISTORY of the edifice. ngr each
of the rows of pillars to the right and left of We, gnu »? twq A N








