186 Route 15. means. West Bank:

line inscriptions which meet in the middle, dating from the time of Tat-mes III. In front of the second door occurs a mention of the restoration
of the building by Horemheb (18th Dyno, within the cells. Scti I. is
named as a restorer; and in another place the second year of Merenptah I.
is mentioned. The name of Ramses m. also occurs in the rooms behind.
Inside the cella we should note the tree on which the god Amman is
writing the name of Seti I. In the adjoining building on the N., the roof
of which includes remains of the old building of Ramses 11., not only is
the priest-king Pinozem, son of Piankhi, of the 21st Dyn. represented, but
also Halter-is of the 29th Dynasty. Ptolemy Euergetes 11. occurs in the
upper inscription running round the cella.

The building, though small, is distinguished by its harmonious
forms. About 85 peace to the HE. is the well-known Fresh Water
Spring, a pool to which a subterranean passage leads. It is a remarkable Get that the freshness of the water remains entirely onadected by the saline exudations from the ground, even in the neucropolis at Thebes.

To the S. of the temples of Medinet Habu are traces of a Sacred
Lake of considerable extent, formerly taken for a hippodrome. At
its N.W. angle is a small temple, now known as (mgr et-'Apoz,
erected by Ptolemy Euergetes II. to his ancestors. It consists of
a wide vestibule and three rooms, one behind another. Still farther
to the s., at the S.W. angle of the former lake, stood a small sanctuary dating from the Roman period. It was erected by Hadrian
and Antoninus Pius, while the ruined pylon bears the names of
Vespasian, Domitian, and Other, the last of exceedingly rare occurrence owing to the emperor's short reign (69 All). The temple
consists of 3. cells surrounded by apartments. A staircase leads to
the roof from a space to the extreme left of the entrance. The inn
scriptions announce that the sanctuary no longer belongs to the
Dinspolimn dismal but to the district of Hermonthis; and it was
specially dedicated to the iris of the W. mountain of Hermonthis.
- Graham discovered in 1889 in the vicinity the remains of in Palace of Amsnhotcp 1H. and his consent Tit.

18. Tombs of the (11199113.

The Tomb: of the Queen: are in every way less important than those
of the Kings in Bihdn cl-hiuliflr, which should in any case be seen; and
a visit to the former, for which at least 11/4 hr. is necessary, render. it
almost impossible to complete the first day's programme on the West
Bank. Those who, however, decide to visit them should proceed thither
direct from Media" Balm, and visit Dér el-Medfneh on the way back.
From Medinet Hahn to the Tombs i/s hr.

The road from Madinat-Haba to the Tombs of the Queens crosses
the desert to the W., and passes through a mountain valley with
bare and lofty sides of limestone, pioturesquely formed and carved
with inscriptions of various lengths. The latter contain prayers to
the gods of the regions of the dead, and date from the 19th and
20th Dynasties. The Tombs of the Queen ] belong to the some
period, except a few which are of the 18th Dyn ty that










