nail NILE JOURNEY.

Contract with the Rails. Mr. x. on the one hand, and the Re'ie Y.
on the other have mutually entered into the following contract :---
(i) The Rails V. owner (or captain) of the dhahabiyeh named Z., now
anchored at Billet; (or Ramleh), agrees to hire that vessel with M ] ne~
mmy equipments in good condition to m, X. for a voyage to Upper
Egypt, for the price of n pounds sterling for the first month, and n pounds
sterling for each day thereafter. [ It the traveller desires to pass the
cataract as described on p. 2'13, he must ascertain whether the dhahabiyeh
is fit for the passage, and in that case add .to paragraph l: The Reds Y.
declares the dhahabiyeh fit for passing the first cataract. Mr. X. shall in
no wise be responsible for any damage sustained by the dm'biyeh in
passing the cataract ]

(2) The Re'is Y. binds himself to present the dhahab'iyeh in the bestpossible condition for sailing. The meat, sails, and rudder shall be strong
and in good condition. The crew shall consist of (at least) 6-8 able-bodied
and experienced sailors and a second re'is or steersman.

(3) A good and efficient small boat (fellnhah) shall accompany the
dhahabiyeh, and shall at all times be at the disposal of m. x, with at
least three sailors as crew, either for excursions, for hunting, or other object.

(4) When the wind is favourable the voyage shall he continued during
the night. when Mr. X. desires it. When the wind is unfavourable, the
dhahabiyeh shall be towed from sunrise to sunset.

O) The Re'is Y. shall cause the dhahabiyeh to halt or to start at
such times as Mr. X. shall direct. He binds himself to select safe and proper
anchorages. hlr. X's express permission must be obtained before any of
the sailors shall be allowed to nit the dhahabiyeh for some hours, either
to go to market, to visit their rienda, or for any other purpose.

(8) The dhahabiyeh shall be washed daily, special care being be
stowed upon the after-deck, on which Mr. X. travels. A good and efficient
awning ads ted to shade the after-deck shall be provided, and shall be
rigged on r. Xi's request, unless the state of the wind menu it. The
Be IS shall cause a lighted lamp to be hung outside the dhahabiyeh at night.

m No passengers or person: other than the crew, and no goods shall
be received on board the dhahabiyeh without the express permission of
his. X. Mr. X. hag the right of receiving on board as many companions
and as much luggage as he chooses.

(B) When the traveller desires to spend some time on shore (as. at
Thebes or Philae), the Re% shall direct at least two sailors to act as
guards over the tent, or temple, or other place where the traveller may
spend the night.

(e; The Ret, and crew shall at all times be obliging and respectful
to Mr. X. and his party Two sailors shall be at all times at the disposal
of the travellers to accompany them on shore and to carry provisions,
books hence, a ladder, or whatever shall be required"

(1 l During the absence of the travellers from the dhahabiyeh, binds himself to maintain it in good condition, and to take charge
of any possessions left by the travellers on board. He binds himself also
to indemnify the travellers for any of their possessions that may be stolen
or injured while under his charge.

(it) The travellers shall be responsible for all damage done to the
dhahabiyeh through their fault, but they shall on no account be liable for
damage arising from any other cause whatever. If the Re% is prevented
by any cause, not due to the fault of. the travellers, from continuing the
voyage, the travellers shall pay only for as many days as the voyage has
actually lasted.

(12) Fees charged for the passage of the bridge at Cure and the first
cataract, by the dhahabiyeh shall be paid by the hirer. (These fees are
fixed by Egyptian officials wording to the size of the JUhstrtresh0

(13) Mr. X. and the Rails Y. bind themselves to submit all disputes
which may arise as to the carrying out of this contract to the arbitration
of the consul in whose presence it has been signed.

Travellers who knew some Arabic or who are already acquainted








