Tombs of the Queens. THERES. M, Route. 187

20 have been discovered, many of them unfinished and entirely

without decoration, and in their rough and blackmail condition,
resembling more caves in the rocks. It is rare to find either ill-'scriptions or representations carved in the stone; even in the finest
tombs the limestone walls were more often covered with plaster
which could be adorned with paintings without much difficulty.

Of the two tombs which we reach first, the second only (to the
W. }, that of a queen of Ramses 111., is preserved. Her name is no

longer legible, but only those of her husband and her son Rain?

anemil The tomb consists of an ante




chamber and a large hall with d pillars,
in the midst of which is the broken samo- l"

hagus.
P The next three tombs, a of which the
farthest belonged to a Queen Him: of the in; "d

20th Dym, need not be visited. But of

the four on the side of the valley next

reached, the second and the first deserve

notice. The former is the Tomb of Queen

m" 03 Q Q: j

S. side of the valley and consists of the

usual antechamber Pl. 1) open to the N,
a long passage (Pl.), and a large chapel

(Pl. 3) with a small chamber on each of
its three sides. In this as in most of the ° C 1 J

better preserved tombs of the Queens the

freshness of the colour is extraordinary. On the left wall (PI, a) of
the Passage 9 we see the queen before Ptah, Ra Harmachis, the genii
of the dead Amset and Tuamutef, and Isis; on the right (m, b)
Titi with the sistrum stands before Thoth, Tum, Hopi, Kebsenuf
and Nephthys. Ptah is placed opposite to Thoth, Ra Harmachis,
is. the morning sun, 216. the evening sun, the two genii
of the dead Amset and Tuamutef to the two others ani and Kebsenuf, and lastly Isis to her sister Naphthys. As a border above the
figures runs an inscription from which we learn that Titi was the
daughter of a king, the sister and the mother of a Pharaoh, and
queen of Upper and Lower Egypt, and that she received in the other
world a friendly welcome and all that is wished for the dead.

The name of the wife of Amenhotep 111., which often occurs on
scarahwi, is also mentioned on the cuneiform tablets recently discovered
at Tell el-Amarnah. She was perhaps the daughter of a Babylonish king.

This would account for the reddish skin and blue eye's with which she
is represented here.

In the passage leading to Room 3 are at Pi. c the Goddess Isis
(Sell: with the scorpion on her head), and at PL d Neith,'the great
lady of Sais, the mistress of heaven, and prirtettt of a in gods, the








