x

188 Route 16. means. West Bank:

daughter of Its; she him not her like'. In the Side--chamber 5 is the
mummy-shaft In the innermost Chamber 6 Osiris sits enthroned as
supreme judge to whom Salk conducts the queen. Behind him are
Nephthys and Thoth. On the walls a and f are tables of offerings on
which, by the side of distributions of bread etc., lie masses of flowers
far larger than are found in the tombs of men. In the Side-chamba i
we see the Rather cow, richly decorated and standing out of a background of radiance and fumes of the painted with dazzling colours.
This painting, which meets as several times in the tombs of the
Queens, represents Rather as a goddess of heaven and especially of
the horizon. She is the now which in the lower world gives birth
to the young Sun, who begins his active life with flame and light

On the right close to the tomb of Tit'i lies that of Queen his,

a
Ast, wife of Ramses IV. (Neforwhakman) of the

20th Dynasty. The entrance is filled up, and the inscriptions are
much injured and covered with debris. In the inner room corresponding to room 3 in the tomb of Titi stands a broken granite samephagua

0n the W. side, running parallel to that just described, the first
tomb approached from the N. is in ruins; close to it is that of a
queen, whose name has been obliterated, and in its place another
written with ink, apparently to be read Tuattsnt Apt. in this the first
and third rooms were supported by pillars. The names are on the
inner wall of the second room. The inscriptions were incised. The
two tombs beyond were the resting-places of another princess, the
favourite daughter of Ramses 11., Boat onto, and of Amen-mart,
tie. the beloved of Ammon, the latter consisting of a principal
hall with a chamber behind and on each side. Contrary to custom
the shaft is on the left of the entrance in front of the principal hall.

1?. Der el-Medineh.

No one should miss seeing the beautiful small Ptolemaic temple of
Der el- Medineh lying to the N W of Medinet Habu. It lies on the way
tn She: kh'Abd el-Kumah either from Medinet Habu or from the Tombs of
the Queens. From Medinet Habu we reach De: - elm Medineh in m minute's.

On the way from the Tombs of the Queens to Diir el-Medineh,
we pass (1/4 hr.) a hillside with some remarkable historical stake of
the 18th, 19th, and 20th Dynasties. On one appears King Ramses m.
before Horns, and his father Setwnehht before Amman. Another
contains an account of the campaigns of the former king.

The graceful Temple of Der elwuedineh was founded under the
Ptolemies for the worship of the dead, and dedicated to the goddess
Hathor. It lies in a barren hollow. in which several fragments of
buildings are to be seen, and is surrounded by a lofty wall of dried
bricks which are fitted together in waving lines; Through this a









