Dér cthedi'mh. (means. 17. Route. 189

Doorway of stone (on the SE), by which we have to pass, leads into
the temple, at the back of which (N) are steep rocks. The sanctuary was founded by Ptolemy 1V. Philopator 1., and sculptures were
added by others of the house of the Lagidse, and later also by the
Emperor Augustus. The traveller on passing through the doorway
in the outer wall sees on his left an archway of Nile bricks, and
before him the front of the temple of freestone, on which many
Greeks and Copts have written their names. In Christian times it
was used by the monke As * dwelling-pie, and to this is due the
mutilation of many of the inscriptions and also its present name
(Der w monastery). We first come to a small hypmthral Antcchamher
with 2 columns, and a few steps farther reach the true Ptolemaic entrance of the Naos. This is ornamented by two pilasters with masks
of Hathor, and two columns with sculptured Calyx-capitals in the
middle, which support the architrave and are connected by walls resembling screens (reaching half-way up). Between the pillars is a
semi-portal similar to the one at Medamirt (p. 151). The pilasters are
brightly coloured and peculiarly ornamented, with a lotus flower and
a bud on slender stems at the side. Above are Uraeus-serpente with the
crowns of'both kingdoms. On the left side is an elegant window which
lights a staircase The inner portion of the temple is in three parts.
Over the door of the middle room, the sanctuary, are placed 7 Esthermasks corresponding to the number of the Hathors. Euergetes Ir,
and his wife are named as beautifiers of the temple, and the four
sacred bulls, Hopi, Urmerti, Temur, and Abekur, are portrayed. In
the cell to the right is the king before the various gods of the lower
world, and also an astronomical painting, Sothis (Sirius) and Orion.
In the room to the left, on the left wall, is a remarkable representation of the Judgment of the Dead.

The valley of Der eL-Medineh is rich in Tombs of various periods,
some of them early and of great interest, with the colours of the
paintings marvellously preserved'

Beta wee discovered the well-known collection of Papyri, obtained
by A. c. Harm in 18%, mumbling the famous papyrus of Retirees ill. (see

p. 120), the largest known, from the archives of the temple of Medinet Babe.

The earliest tombs here belong to the beginning of the New Empire and to the times of Aahmes I. and Amenhotep L They belonged to great officials, especially to the Sotemms, supreme judge
at the Seat of Truth, possibly a college which met at Der sin-Media
neh. We may mention the small brilliantly coloured chapel of the
royal scribe, Moss-d, the similar one of Khd, the tombs of Amenmes,
Zeskcn, and Amenhotep. In several tombs we find numerous fragments of mummies, damaged and ransacked by the fehéhim Couthtutng farther into the valley we reach a tomb with a wide entrance
from which there is a fine View of Der eI-Medineh and of the fertile
plains to the E., traversed by the Nile and bounded by the distant
Arabian mountains. In the foreground are seen Medium Hahn, the






