190 Route 18. THEBES. West Bank:

Oolossi of Memnon, and the Ramesseum, and on the other side of
the river the gigantic ruins of Karnah.

18. The Tomb: of ghtkh'Abd el-Kurnah.

With this part of the Necropolis of Thebes, which may be reached
from Der elwhiedineh in 25 min, we conclude our first day on the W. bank
in our three days' plum Game's tourists make it their second day, Cook's
begin their third day with the Bamessenm (it. 13) and the tombs of
'Abd elsgumah, as in our five days plan. The tombs to be visited may
be found without a guide. They are reached by ascending the E. side of
the Libyan mountains in a direct line from the Ramesseum. Many of the
tombs here are inhabited by fe112Nm The sepulchral chambers serve
as dwellingvplaces, wooden doors are hung in the entrances, and the
fore-court is often enclosed by a clay well for the confinement of their
live stock. In front of most of these cave-dwellings stand covered up
linders like gigantic mushrooms, of N e mud and straw kneaded ton
gather. These are the primitive granaries of the inhabitants of i'Abd elKurnah, several of whom are we1i-ttrdo, with houses of Nile bricks, eonepieuoue from a considerable distance. Those who are desirous of staying
any length of time should make arrangements with the wealthy and worthy
Cept, Teams, uncle of the German consular agent at honor. The erection of a house for travellers has been under consideration, and would
be of especial benefit to scholars by sparing them the daily journey to
and from Lusor. Shelter may be found in the house of Muhammad'Ahd.
sin-Read ], provisions being brought from Luror. Several European scholars have chosen'Abd-tIAN) as their centre for investigations on the
W. hank, among them. Champollion, Wilkinson, Lepsius (whose lodging
in the tomb: is still known by the felldhin as the gear Lepsius), Prisse
. d'Avennes, and Ebers. The visitor to the tombs must first face some
savage dogs, but he will be thoroughly repaid partly by the interest which
some of the tombs afford, and partly by the magnificent "View which is
obtained from those in the higher positions, especially at sunset. In this
part of the Necropolis of Thebes were buried the wealthy nobility of the
8th Dye, upon whose tombs large sums of money must have been spent.
The inscriptions record that the deceased were in their lifetime invested
with the highest spiritual and temporal dignities and that they enjoyed
almost royal estates, their pride in which they show in sculptures and
inscriptions. However death is not forgotten in these tombs, for there is
no lack of funereal epitaphs. In almost all of them too we find genealogical tables, by which we learn that many of those buried here were
related to each other.

The more important tombs were numbered by Wilkinson, but most
of the figures have been obliterated. In 1885 Prof. Eisenlohr renumbered
the tombs, in all 1127, including those with no inscriptions. In the following description' of the tombs reference is made to these numbers, which
appear in the adjoining small plan. If time is limited, it will be truthcient to visit the tombs of Khe-em-hat, Ramses, mun, Sen-waster, Anna,
Horemheb, and Ramenkhepersencb.

The traveller is recommended to begin with two tombs on the

eastern side of the hill behind the Ramesseum. The one to the left

is that othaucma-hat a 5: it (No.120), superinton-s
dent of the royal granaries, of the time ot'Amenhotep III. The tomb
has been long known, and in consequence is much injured. It lies
behind a square court cut out of the hill, and has two other tombs
near it.

The tomb of mrmhdt consists of three halls lying one behind the
other, the first and third of which are at right angles to its 1 h Un








