Sit on'Abd cla--Kumoh. THERES' 18. Route. 191

an aide: of the sides of the first and third were placed niches of which only one (on
the left) is preserved in the first hall, and three in the third. There is a
wide passage between halls 1 and 2. The third hall is adjoined by a
fourth smaller room. On the left of the entrance is Klemens-fad: offering
a prayer to Ra with uplifted hands. In the niche to the left two statues
of anm-mz mm m resistive, Imhotep, the treasurer (the neighbouring
tomb 121 belonged to an Imhotep). On the right of the entrance is the
deceased offering two dishes with two geese in each. On the left are four
series; in the two upper, fowling scenes; below the king driving B four »
horse. chariot, and in the lowest, harvest scenes. A flute player encourages
the reapers. On the inner wall to the left Kha-em-hiit presents a report on



the harvest to King Amenhotep m. sitting beneath




a canopy. The nine captive tribes, at the out o the canopy, among whom
are Greeks (Henson), should be noticed. On the right again the deceased
with a peculiar headdress delivers to the king the harvest report of the
year 30. Behind him are two rows of his officials in humble attitude.
The chess-board decoration of the ceiling is peculiar. In the entrance to
the second hall on the right, there is a long 16 column inscription of
deeply-cut hieroglyphics. In the second hall are destroyed,
the fourth was entirely without inscriptions.

To the right at no great distance is a tomb first opened in 1882
(now No. 118), known as Stuart's Tomb from its discoverer Villiers
Stuart. It belonged to Ramses, a mayor (mar not set) and his sister
Ptohmerit, of the time of Amenhotep IVE, the sun-worshipper, who,
as Khu-en-aten (splendour of the sun) removed his residence to
Tell elndmamah (see p. 22). Here as there the sun is represented
with his rays spread out as hands protecting the king and queen.
Proceeding a little farther to this T, we soon reach the tomb of
Nclcht (No. 125), first Opened in 1889 (the door unlocked on re"
quest) with representations of fowling, wine-pressing, etc; the
drawing is rough but the colours fresh and well grommet We then
climb the somewhat steep hill and, passing the richly decorated tomb
(No. 119) of Ameuuser, who lived under Tutmes m., some to
that marked No. 35. Khomsatcldtin, by Wilkinson, at one time
considered the most worth visiting of all. It consign of a vestibule,
and a large chamber from the centre of which an unusually long
passage of remarkable and gradually increasing height runs into the
rock. It was laid out by a prince, governor, eta, named Rskhnmawrd,
who died in the time ofAmenhotep 11., the successor of Totmes 111.,
when the tributes of Asia were flowing into Egypt in exceptional
abundance, to the benefit of the relations and favourites of the royal
family.'

The pictorial decoration of the walls can now be scarcely seen, and
can be much better studied in the works of Wilkinson and Eoshins
(Ethiopia). The tomb served as the abode of old Eueén Berlin, the com
anion of Harris mud Lamina, and is a convenient room for luncheon.
The opportunity should be taken of looking at the faded paintings of the
left corridor, and of the passage into the rock. They represent payment
of tribute by the Ethiopians (Punt, Kala.) and Asiatics (Retennu), various
kinds of work such as brick-making for building, pottery, carpentry,
joinery, glans'blowing, carving and polishing of statues, and a company
of mourners with harpers and women playing musicalmstmmtflid











