192 Route 18. muses.



Mounting to the left of the tomb of Rekhmari we reach (to the
left of No. 48) a lately discovered tomb, rather difficult of access.
The trouble of the ascent, however, is repaid by the beauty and
freshness of the paintings. It belonged to Sen-nofer (good brother),
superintendent of the southern city, overseer of the granaries of
Ammon, and superior of the flocks of Ammon, under Amenhotep II.
Strangely enough the name of Alexander (Arkee antes) is also found
hem To the right, immediately above the tomb of Rekhmeri, is
that (now No. M) of Annual), superintendent of the palace under
Taiwan III. and Amenhotep IL This also consists of a large vestibule with niches in the sides, and a rather long passage out into
the hill.

The representations on the inner wall of the vestibule are worth noticing. On the left are the African tribes bringing in their tribute con »
sisting of gold, ivory, apes, panther-skins and the like. On the right is
the tribute of the sciatica, jars, a carriage, a white and a brown horse,
and various weapons. In both corners of the vestibule were steles, of
which only that on the right has been preserved combining a prayer to
Its in the name of the deceased. On the right-hand side of the long passage into the hill is a scene illustrating the chase of waterfowl.

To the right close to No. 51 is the tomb of Amen-em-heh (No. 36)
known to Champollion and described by Eben and Stem. It cons
sists of two halls one behind the other, of which the length is at
right angles to the passage between them, and of a chamber behind
the second hall.

The historical Inscription on the left inner wall of the first hall painted
in blue on white stucco, and discovered by Prof, is of special interest. In it Amen--onset describes the part which he took in the corn-. signs of Tonnes 111., and gives' exact information of the length of that

haraoh's reign, and the accession of his successor Amenhotep II. He
does not forget to record the honours which the favour of his prince had
heaped upon him.'I was", he begins'his lordship's great fl elity, the
pride of the king of Lower Egypt, the half of the heart of the king of Upper
Egypt. 1 followed my lord into the country of the north and of the south

according to his will etc.'Then he recounts how he took part in the victorious



expeditions to South Palestine <

sopotarnia (Naharain), the well--woods Uhn westward othalybon (Aleppo),
Karkhernish, beyond the river of Mesopotamia (the Euphrates), Tyre (1?),
Katesh, Niniveh, etc. Everywhere he obtained spoil and was rewarded
with presents of rings and helmets, and decorated with necklaces, the
badges of orders, including the'Ornament of the Lion'. The following is an interesting passage:'Another time the lord of both worlds per--formed a mighty dee before Niniveh, when he hunted 120 elephants for
their man. I killed the greatest among them, fighting in the eight of His
Majesty, and cut off its trunk". On returning to Egypt Amen-ein-heb remained with King Tubman UL, who died in the 54th year of his reign on
the last day of the third winter month. We ascended to heaven at the
going down of the sun, and the serum owed made himself one with
his Maker. When it was morning and the earth became clear and the sun's
face arose and the heavens were made bright, then did the king of Up
and Lower Egypt, Amenhotep 11., ascend his father's throne'. Under t a
Pharaoh also the general enjoyed high honours. His skull is preserved
in the anatomical museum of Leipsie. His biography was composed by
another commander-in-chief, named fish.

Below this inscription are seen Syrians bringing tribute, name ail







