- ass. 18. Route, 193

ing their arms in prayer, others kissing the dust. Among them are sum
nuchs, easily recognized by the fatty swellings on their breasts. The garments of the Asiatics are peculiar, white with coloured stripes down the
seems even of the sleeves. Many of them wear white bands on their foreheads. Their profile is strongly Semitic; the red pointed beards and the
hooked noses being carried almost to the point of caricatures. Some
bring cattle, others finely worked vases. Amen-em-heb was a great
lover of flowers, as we learn from other inscriptions in the first chamber
of his tomb.'

In the Second Hall on the left inner well there is a remarkably interesting picture of Amen-em-heb on his chariot, the latter unfortunately
half obliterated. In his left hand he holds a long pointed stair, perhaps
for urging on his horses, in his right a golden necklace, with which he
has been decorated, his diploma (which is frequently mentioned), and the
reins. On the right hand side of the inner well there is a curious representation of an Egyptian party. There is an abundant provision of food
and drink The servants in attendance carry flowers on the arm as modern
waiters carry napkins. The wife of this lover of flowers has a green had
in her hair. The guests, two of them on easy chairs and three on stools,
are od'ered refreshments. Below, in the second row, the ladies are seated.
An attendant holds in each hand a Maff wreathed and crowned with flowers,
and all the lady guests have blossoms in the hair and round the neck
and hold a lotus flower in the hand. In the lowest row is a hand of
music in run activity It consists of two harpers, a man sitting and a
woman standing, a flute-player and a lute-player, both of them woman
standing. - The women's faces, including those of the musicians, are exceedingly pretty. On the wall to the right are fowlingwseenes.

In the Third Room the dwelling-house is represented, and its roof is
supported by a wooden pillar with a capital consisting of a rich variegated flower in red, white, and two shades of green, with two campamtively large buds on long stems projecting from the upper part of the
shaft. Below lathe sledge with the sarcophagus drawn by servants
and a white cow, and the arrival before Osiris. On the wall to the right
is Amen-em--heb's garden, in the centre of which, surrounded by plants, is
a pond with fish swimming in it. There is a plentiful supply of flowers and
fruit, which the gardeners are preparing to carry into the house

We new second still further to No. M, the tomb of Pehsnukher
who was adjutant to the lord of both lands, colonel in the army,
and fanmbesrer to the king. In this tomb which has been for a long
time known, the colours are particularly well preserved. A large
party of ladies and gentlemen is represented. On the large stole the
different festivals kept by the Egyptians are mentioned. If there is
time we may visit No. 39 (to the left), the tomb of Finer, not to be
confounded with the mayor of the same name of the time of Seti L,
at the foot of the hill. This Pillar was a companion of King Amen-hotep IL, and followed him, it is said, into all countries by land
and water, and was therefore honoured with gifts.

To the right and a little above the tomb of Pebsn-Kher (No. M,
see above) there is a deep pit into which one can be let down with
ropes brought from the dhahabiyeh. The tomb of Amtmomliit,
who has here, is remarkable for some hunting-Seamus, and in the
inner chamber for copious extracts from the Book of the Dead,
written in black and red on white stucco. Ascending to the right
(N) we reach the tomb (No. 26) of. prince { ems-ha) and
royal scribe, as well as overseer of the fruit-stores, who died after
a long life in the reign of Amenhotep 111. (18th Byte). The roof

Buchanan's Upper Egypt. "u):








