194 Route 18. Tenses. West Bank:

of the antechamber has fallen in, and the sun lights up its walls,
which are covered with a variety of interesting representations.

On the fragment of will to the left prince Aorta is seen with his
wife Teen sitting under a light pavilion, supported by a pillar, which
shown that the calymcapital belonged originally to wooden buildings,
and was'only adopted later in stone architecture. The pavilion has a
natural connexion with the picture of Anna's garden as he was a zealous
planter of trees. A number of mm mm cultivate try him are named,
and to this we own our knowledge 0 the names and characters of several
of the plants of ancient Egypt. On the long enter wall, on the left, we
see the name Anna again, this time standing upright, in full enjoyment
of his rank, while receiving the different kinds of tributes for the storehouses of Ammon. There are scribes to take down the amount of each
cannibalism and even the number of strokes which are inflicted upon a
debtor. From Ethiopia there is a variety of contributions to be received,
including negress slaves carrying their children in baskets on their backs,
ivory, ebony, apes, panther-skins, etc. The deletion bring rapsiussuli, am.

On the same outer wall but to the right of the spectator Anna is
seen again, but this time in company with his united family. His bound
is standing below his seat, while ostriches, wild assets, a kind of wild
goat, and other goats and cattle of various kinds and colours are being
brought to him. One man brings rows of pomegranates m, on strings
The interior of the tomb is small, but is not without interest, especially
from the abundant list of offerings on the right well from which alone we
learn the names of the kinds of wine and two kinds of beer. On the
left wall is the countryuhouse and garden of the deceased; two women
are standing at the door, probably his wife and his mother. In the background Anna is sitting with his with before a richly furnished table of
offerings. Opposite to him is seen his coffin bein drawn along, and the
weeping women throwing dust on their heads, not as may be seen in
Egypt at the present day. The innermost room of No. 28 together with
the shaft has been filled up with atom, and all that can be recognized
of its paintings is the back of an enormous Apep serpent, the enemy of
the Sun-ship of Ra.

We notice the two long galleries to the left with numerous entrances but without any remarkable tombs, and ascend again to the
right to No. 13, a tomb well worth seeing, belonging to Hormel),
who seems to have held a series of offices, especially that of overseer
of the cattle, in the successive reigns of Tunnes D. and m., Amenhotep IL and m., and Tumes 1V., of the 18th Dynasty. Close to
it is the tomb (No. 1'?) of Tannin, a fan-bearer on the king's right
hand, and adjoining this, but turned towards the N., the tomb of
Amencphis (No. 102), second Prophet to Amman, and of his wife
Roi. The paintings in this contain a scale in which gold rings are
being weighed, various workmen, one of whom is making a sphinx,
clerks with tables writing out the crepe, and a statue with a some
head; on the right music and dancing

A little higher to the right is the tomb of Zulu!!! (No. loo, Cara
should be taken at the entrance, to avoid falling into the deep shaft.
The paintings represent Remun- bringing presents in gold, silver, lapislazuli, and emeralds.

We have now almost reached the summit of the hill, and can
enjoy the magnificent Wiew including the Rsmessenm, the Memnon
statues, and on the other side of tho Nils Lam: and Kameh; to the
right below the hills is seen the temple of Dir el-bahri, and the

path leading to the Tombs of the Kings. We now descend past






