can }; use stagecoach. THEBES. 18. Route. 195

No. 26 (see above) to the tomb of Ramenkheporseueb (No. M),
which, having been Opened only for a few years, is remarkably well
preserved and is well worth a visit. For stout people, however, the
entrance is almost too narrow. The deceased was chief architect to
Tutmes Ill. The right hand inner wall of the large hall tells us of the
important works which were entrusted to him, such as the carving
of a statue of the king from a single stone, the erection of a hall of
pillars, and of numerous obelisks. Here again we see tribute being
brought by princes, of Keftu (the Phoenicians), of Kheta, Trump,
Kat, Katesh, etc. The arms and helmets of the foreigners, their
carriages and handsome vases are remarkable Near this, a little
to the right, is the fine and. well-preserved tomb (No. M) of Amen
the scribe of the harvest, in which should be noticed the
harper and the long list of relations of the deceased, whose father
and mother were named Tutmes and Enter. In a passage there are
represented barges with mummies of himself and his wife Baht.
In the last chamber there is a State of the 28th year of Tutmes Ill.
The shaft in the tomb contains a large room covered with writings
Still farther to the right is the tomb (No. 60) of a prince (erpa-hii)
Enteiaker, and on the NE. slope that of Amhhont, the son of Auto,
which was completely excavated in 1883. A descent should now
be made to the gallery, in front of which is seen Wilkinson a House,
and to the tomb (No. 88) of Imaiseb, who was scribe of the altars
of sacrifice under Ramses IX. (Neferkara). The foetal barges with
the name of the king should be noticed, as well as the many golden
utensils, and the money-bags, and also a series of kings, among
whom appears King Rashenen, who fought against the Hyksos, and
whose remarkable mummy is in the museum at Giseh.

We now descend to the plain, where there are a few more tombs
to be seen in the direction of ssl-Asif, including that of Refers
hotep, who lived under King Home, the last of the 18th Dynasty.
In this should be especially noticed the funeral processions by boat
which have been copied by Wilkinson (Manners and Customs). The
funeral services are also recorded.

We have to crawl through the entrance which is choked up. The
ceiling is decorated, and has a regularly recurring series of hieroglyphics
signifying'First' and'Pro het"; the deceased in fact held the office oi
Prophet of amnion. The many mm in me am mom explains itself;
the 39 rows of hieroglyphic: above record the names of the relations of
the deceased, who on the left are paying homage to King Home with
whom they were closely connected In the second room we see Neferhotep, sitting by the side of his sister who is adorned with flowers. Behind them is an'freer-PMOS which indicates that distinguished Egyptian
families kept private hands of music; and it may be that the special
duty of the harper whose song has been handed down to posterity by
this inscription, was to gladden the hearts of the family when they were
assembled in their ancestor's tomb for the solemnities in his honour
The song is not in any way of a mournful character, and it is clear that
in the time of the Pharaohs, it was a pleasure to be reminded in the
tombs of the shortness of Tee and the duty to enjoy it, so ton as it
lasted. The song is headed: The words of the harper, who tarr s in

13*







