196 Route 18. THEBES. _ West Bank.'

the tomb of own, of the righteous prophet of Amen, Neferhotep'.
After an introduction, wishing peace to the dead, and glorifying the
sunngod, it continues literally as follows: "Celebrate the great day, o
prophet. Well is to thee, fragrant resin and ointments are laid before
thee. Here are wreaths and flowers for the waist and shoulders of thy
sister, who is pleasant to thine heart, as she mu beside thee. Let us
then sing and strike the harp in thy presence. Leave all cares behind
and think of the joys, until the day of the voyage comes when man mu
anchor on the land which delights in silence'.

Near this is the once splendid tomb of another Neferhotep, overseer of the cattle of Ammon, but now in mine and used as a mega-zine by the keeper of the Gireh museum. There may also be visited
in the neighbourhood the tombs of Khefiif, of the time of Amen-,
hotep 111., of Moi, and of an official in charge of the stables of
Amenhotep 11., the inner room of which is the resting place of
Make, a writer of the treasury in the time of Ramses n.

If the dhahabiyeh is lying at Luxor, the small boat should be ordered
to wait ugh }: some men on the left bank of the river at the E. and of
the tales.

19. The Mortuary Temple of Sufi I. at.

Second fine on the W. bank: 1. Temple of hut-nah; 2. Tomb: of the
Kings (Bibén e1-hruliikr, r 3. Necropolis of e1-AUatf and of Drab dbu'lNeggah; A, Der el--bahri.

To the W. bank as on the previous day, see p. 152. From the
landing-place M the ferry we ride across the fields in a northerly
direction and in 3/4 hr. reach the handsome a" Temple, the front of
which with its columns is visible at a considerable distance. The
original building (see the annexed plan) was of smaller dimensions
than the Ramesseum and Medinet Habu, its complete length being
518 ft., and of this only the actual sanctuary with its halls and
chambers, 153 it. in depth remain, while there are only scanty
remains to prove the former existence of two Courts and the Pylon:
which enclosed them. The Sphinx" which were placed like guardians to the right and left of the door leading into the first Court
on the inside, are half covered with earth. They were placed there
by Seti L, and on the bases were inscribed the name's of all the
nations which he had conquered. Of all the buildings in the Necropolis of Thebes, this one most reminds us of the Memnonium of Abydos
(p. 54), and a closer inspection of the style of inscriptions and representations will both bring out and explain their similarity, for
the temple of Iiumah was founded by Seti L, the builder of Abydos,
and both the sanctuaries were restored and completed by Ramses ll.
They both served the same purpose, as a place where the manes of
the founder might be remembered, and offerings made. At Abydos
it is true that throughout attention was paid to the pilgrims to
Osiris, while here it is the gods of Thebes that were prominent, a this was the centre of the festival of the mountain valley,



> (the entrance to the neighbouring Bib el-Multi: was
ea w,








