Tempe! of am f. THEBES. 19. Boots. 197

probably the scene of the festival). Moreover in the Memnonium
also Seti l. with filial piety thought of his father Ramses L, the deceased Ramses Ra-men-pews', To him are especially dedicated the
sculptures on a false door, which is reached by

passing through the left entrance door from the

colonnade on the last facade, and crossing the hall
with two columns and the long chamber lying be »
hind it. On the inner wall of this last, on the right
and left panels of the false door referred to, Ram
ses L is seen enthroned as'King Osiris', and from;
two inscriptions between these which are divided
by ornaments and two others which frame the whole,
we learn that Seti I. dedicated this portion of his

Memnonium to the memory of his father. His son

did for him what he had done for his father, while later kings,
Merenptah, Siptah, and Ramses 111., had their names carved in
various places, but do not seem to have either restored or enlarged
the Memnonium. The traveller should especially notice the extraordinary beauty and purity in style of the inscriptions and paintings, The existing remains of the temple of Kumah may be divided
into four parts: i, the colonnade on the front of the temple facing
the E.; 2, 3 and d, the three series of 113119, chambers, and closets
separated by partition-walls, one in the centre, one mi the left, and
one on the right.

The Colonnade (Pl. A) originally displayed 10 fine columns
with papyrus-bud capitals, excellent specimens of this order, but
of these one on the 8. side (left) has been destroyed. In its
inner wall, the eastern wall of the temple, are three doors (PI. a,
h, c), which lead into the three series of rooms mentioned above,
and the sculpture on it is of great interest, representing 12 pairs
of divinities, each a god and a goddess, eight of which may certainly be taken to represent branches of the Nile forming the Delta.
On their heads they catty well-known geographical symbols. Of
each pair it is said that they come in order to bring gifts to Pharaoh.
The dedicatory inscription reads: "The saying of the gods and the
goddesses of the north to their son eta, Ramses H. We come to
thee, our arms are laden with choice goods and produce. We gathered for than all good things from all that the earth brings forth,
to place the temple of thy father in a festival of joy... Then hast
made good that which had fallen, and built up thy father's house,
in that thou bringest it to an end with works of eternal standing.
Then didst cause to be shown by art his sacred boat of

5.52:: a m "'
2:5 < 3 I j;...,' This boat is often














represented, and was home in procession at the feast of the mountain
valley. The Canopic arm of the Nile was considered the most imw



