198 Ram 19. means. West Bank:

portant, but otherwise the branches were reckoned from east to west.
More to the left, but not so well preserved, are the river-gods of the
southern Nile. Here the dedicatory inscription tells us that Sufi I.
set this up to Amman--Ra, the lord of the throne of the universe,
in the region of Ammon of the western Thebes for millions of years
etc, and that his son Ramses IL was the restorer of this building.
'Not all his works', it literally continues,'were finished in writing
or in bellowing out. So his son, the lord of both worlds,
its;

0 Ramses 11., commanded to build up everlasting



buildings in his temple opposite to eastern Thebes' etc

Passing through the middle door (Pl. b) of the colonnade, we enter
a kind of Hypostyle with 6 papyrus-bud columns (PL B). This is
bounded on each side by three chambers, and beyond the last pair
of these expands to their full depth. It is considerably smaller than
other similar halls, measuring only 50 ft. by 35 n, A part of the
roof has fallen in, on the slabs which are preserved are the vulture forms of Habent (Nekheb?) and two inscriptions. On the right
is the ordinary dedication of the building, on the left a special
mention of this hall, which like all similar ones is called' The Hall
of Appearance. Everywhere we see on the walls Soti I. offering
incense to the gods of Thebes, and bringing the symbol of his
name, and flowers etc. On the right and left of the door Seti I.
meets us as a boy, with Math on the one side, and Esther on the
other giving him the mother's breast. The young prince already

wears the helmet and holds the symbol of princely rank; Esther



with the horns of a cow and the disc upon her head, supports with her
right hand the nourishing breast, and says:'I am thy mother, who
fashions everything that is perfect. Feed thyself with my milk'.
Besides the Theban triad are mentioned Rather as goddess of the
western horizon, Isis, Tum, Ptah, and Anubis. The Frim of the
Hall of Appearance displays the name and surname of Seti L constantly repeated. Several inscriptions show that Seti left this hall
unfinished, and that Ramses completed what his father had begun.
In the adjoining room) there are several clear references to the
coitus of the dead which was celebrated here. In hall A which is
supported by' pillars, we see Set! I. before a Naos with the but
of Ammon-Ra,

The series of chambers to the left divides into two parts: a
Hall (Pi. F) with 2 pillars, into which three long rooms open, while
behind are three running parallel with the axis of the temple, and
three in a N. and S. direction, which are reached by a passage from
the extreme left of the inner wall of the colonnade. This part of
the building was dedicated to the memory of father, son, and grandfather, Sen L, Ramses H, and Ramses I. For the inscriptions to
the last 8% above





