Temple of Soil I. THEBES. 19. Route. 199

The right hand portion of the temple consisted of a long Hall
(Pl. E) with iO columns (no longer standing), and of five rooms
behind, three larger and two smaller, originally separated from
it. The sculptures of this part are of the time of Ramses IL, and
far inferior to those of the central building and left hand portion
of the sanctuary.

A little to the N. of the temple is a wateruwheel and spring with
some aunt trees, used as a watering-place for cattle. Passing this
we leave to the left the side of the Libyan mountains with the
Necropolis of Draft Atu'l Neggah, and continue directly by the lower
path to the valley of the Tombs of the Kings.

Brah Ahu'l Neggah is one of the oldest cemeteries of Thebes, and
the treasures discovered by Mariette's excavations have been of extraordinary value, but the tombs are new filled up and the traveller will
find nothing unless he excavator for himself. omhs of the 11th, 17th,
and 13th Dynasties were discovered here, and in one of them was the
mummy of Queen Aah-hotep, whose precious ornaments are preserved in
the Gizeh Museum (Vol. 1., p. 302). In her time it was the custom to pay
more attention to the decoration of the dead body than to that of the
tomb. The Necropolis of Drab Abu'l Neggah was a source of plunder
from a very early time. There are papyrus legal documents, preserved
in London and Turin, which acquaint us with the proceedings taken
against thieves, who had robbed the tombs at Drab Abu'l Neggah, and
those of the queens during the 20th Dynasty.

20. Bibdn Tombs of the'1? f 1

The entrance to the valley of the Kings" Tombs may be reached in
about 3/4 hr. from the landing-place of the ferry on the W. bank of the
Nile, by the path indicated above as the temple of Eurnah. The moantain-track vii. eGAmhtf, more fatiguing though shorter, is better followed
on the return.

We enter this valley of the dead by an old road of the Pharaohs.
Beyond a rocky ravine we reach an open space, whence two reeds
diverge. That to the left leads to the Btblin eL-Mulak proper, visited
by all travellers; that to the right to the W. cross-valley of the
gorge of the Kings" Tombs. The latter route describes a wide curve
round the greater part of the Bibin el-Muldk and leads past steep
crags, on which hundreds of vultures perch in the afternoon, to two
Kings' Tombs. We reach the valley of the Tomb of hi (Arab. Turoet
elwfi'urdd or Tomb of the Apes) by the route leading to the right
from the open space, or by a very difficult path (not recommended)
over the mountain (between Nos. 8 and 9). m Visitors who are
pressed for time may content themselves with inspecting Tombs
Nos. *9,'li, *17, "'17, *6, 8, and w, Cook's tourists visit Nos. 2, 6, 9,
It, 17, and lunch in No. 18. A visit to the W. tombs (see p. 202)
will also be found interesting. The numbers have been inscribed
on the entrances of the tombs by Sir Gardener Wilkinson. The name
bein et-Malik means'gates of the kings' 0rthtn pl. of bib, the
gate). The inhabitants of Thebes apply the name cab Bdb to every
ancient tomb.
Samba tells of 40 tombs'worthy of a visit? the rholare of the









