200 Route 19. (omens. West Bank:

French Expedition mention it, while at present 25 are accessible,
to which a few more have quite recently been added. Pansanias,
Allin, Heliodorus, Americans Marcellinus, and other ancient
authors refer to them as the Syringes (56917164) of Thebes, which
name also occurs in the Greek inscriptions within the tombs. The
word'Syrinx' meant first a shepherd's pipe formed of longish reeds,
then it came to mean a hollow passage, and thus was applied to the
long rock-hewn passages of Ethan eleulilk.

These tombs and the subjects represented in them require some
words of explanation. The tombs which are in good condition and accessible are Nos. 1, 2, 6, 8, 9, 11, it, to, 16, 17; the rest either contain only
the name of a king, or are unsafe owing to snakes (as. No. 7) or are
simple passages out in the rock. Plan and Arrangement. Nos. 1 and 2 simply
consist of a passage, a hall for the sarcophagus, and an inner room. Of the
rest only Nos. 9 and 11 are completed. In the first the plan is most
clearly seen: I; three long halls, 2) a square hall, 3) first smaller hall with
pillars, A) one or two inclined oblong halls or passages, 53 a square room,

) a second larger hall with pillars, the inn of which are side-chambers,'7) at the and another square or
several oblong rooms or passage; - The first hall with pillars has also
a side-chamber to the right, as in Nos 8 and 11, and with some variation, in
No. 17. The roof of the second is supported by s pillars, and as in No. i?
may also have an adjoining room on the left. From the plan of No. it we
conclude that this tomb was intended for several persons, as there are
two sarcophagus--halls. The mum of the 18th Dye. were arranged quite
differently from those of the 19:); and Nth. In those a sloping passage
leads into the square sarcophagus-hall, and adjoining this is a second hall
with pillars, the entrance to which is placed six inch above the ground. The oblong rooms usually contain niches, which were harm in the stone
at four to six [ set above the ground, possibly for the keeping of sacrificial
vessels. All the tombs slope downward; in those of lists I. (17) and of At we find a flight o well-worked
steps at the entrance, while in the others the descent is made by inclined
planes. Although the general plan is the same in all, and the differenee
in also seems to have depended only on the amount of time and money
which each Pharaoh was able to give to the work, there is no similar
arrangement of inscriptions and representations; in fact only a certain
general resemblance can be observed, though We inscription vary not to
sense or even in words, but only in quantity. The style is often enigmatical and the interpretation of both the signs and their meaning
is extremely difficult. The following is a brief account of the inscriptions and representation. In the first place there is cut in the wall a
long hymn to its in Amenities or the lower world, which recount: the
"forms of Ra with the invocation:'Praise be to Re, the Almighty 2'
Then it is said that the king knows the'74 forms of the god by name
The works of Re are farther glorified, and his victories over his fees.
In front of this hymn there is usually represented an .miape'a head
with a serpent beside it above the disc, and an antelo c's head with a
crocodile below. It is usually found in the first oblong all, as in Nog, 2,
8, 11, 15 and 17. The texts are more or less injured or defective, and
it has been the task of MM. Neville and Lefébure to collate and correct them.
- The Sea, with which the worship of the Egy tune began was conceived
by them in various forms, as we have seen (gel. 1.,. 1%). According
to one conception, which is the prevailing one in Bib n elsfluldk, he is
the god he, who in the golden age of the Egyptians ruled over the earth; he
is dead and dwells in Amenthes; Khepera is light as the unchangeable being,
constant in the midst of continual change, represented in the form of a

scarabwus



3 Which therefore is placed in the dark grave; finally





