Drain Attic Ncggoh. moses. 19. Route. 201

Amman; is the lord and master of the throne of the universe, the
living and actin God of heaven. These three form a trinity which is
the deity of Ethan el~hiuldk, and is worshipped in Amenthes, as we find
represented in every tomb. Here also Isis and Nephthys mourn for
the dead, and worship those who have become lie. of Amenthes; for as
the pilgrimage of human life is only an image of the daily and yearly
pilgrimage of the sun, so the dead king, who once ruled over the land,
becomes like a Ra of Amenthes, and every royal tomb an image of Amenthes
itsel.

The largest part of all the representation: is occupied by the Dump
tiers of Life in'k
centre of this life is its the blessed, who is here always called din-Ra,
he. the body of Ra, in opposition to his soul which dwell! not in Tue-t
but in heaven He passes by in a boat, always accompanied by "ami
Hekau. Sometimes he is followed by other gods; he stands in a pavilion,
round which a serpent coils. The gods of Tea-t draw his boat. By
the side of this we are generally shown these deities worshipping him,
and also Tum piercing with a lance the serpent which resists his boat.
The serpent may be either good or evil. In No. 8, Room v, the Urmus
he. Tea-t, or the depth of the grave. The





serpent, and the serpent of life are instances of good serpents. Those
that place themselves before the boat are evil. They are called by
various names: Nehebka, Neheb-Ashuhern, m. Sometimes they are
rearing up in combat, sometimes lying mommy coiled up, and some
times they appear with legs and wings, and scattering fire. The serpents
at the dam apparently only held the pm" uf Bdab, or doorkeepers.
Besides these we find mentioned'a large number of other beings connected with Tua-t.

As to the Nations represented in Nog, 11 and 17, it need only be said
that all are humbling themselves before Ra, after all his enemies have
been conquered by Tum.

An active life prevails in Toast; there is driving, singing, lighting,
reaping, no. It should he noticed that the same representations of Arse
Wa are found in many of the papyrus-rolls.

The Gods of the Dead by whom the deceased are introduced into this
world are almost all represented here. Most often it is thejackahheaded
Anubis that is d'l', d,'i as god of the "dead by f and Nephthys in
favour of the deceased. The infernal Hathor or hiersekhot also often
appears. The worship of Osiris gives way to that of the blessed En, but
still the king is represented as adoring him, usually over the door of the
hall of the sarcophagus. Thoth and the Moon only occasionally appear.

Before the King can ante; his last resting-plans in peace, he must
first be justified; and referring to this the i? th chapter of the Book of
the Dead is usually found in the square room in front of thesarcophagushall, as in No. 9, VIII, and No. 2, IV. In No. 6 it is found on the left
of the entrance.
The Massey Ceremonies connected with the king's effigy, in which
apparently his son took part, are most perfect in No. it, less well t? reserved in No. 1?, and most abridged in No. H, in the passage lea ing
down from the first hall of pillars.

The whole represents the) Fortune: of the Dead. After din-Ra and
with him the king have overcome the obstacles of evil, and he has justified himself from all his sins, he enters into the Most Holy Place, the
Empyrean, the highest heaven or abode of the blessed, where the visible
world of Amman-Its. appears to man the na-t of the blessed Ra. Here
the songs of joy and hymns of praise resound, and Amman-Ra spreads
out his wings like a mighty bird. The gods move past in their bark.
the stars me and set, the hours, the days, the years pass by. The king
is placed among the gods, he dwells among the stars, and the Divine
Comedy is finished.





