202 Route 20. T



I West Bank:

a. West Valley of the Tomb: of the Kings.

The W. valley of the Bibdn el-hfultk should be visited immediately after Tombs No. 9, 11, and "by those who are pressed
for time. The first tomb here is that or Amenhotep m.

o *3 )": < 2?) I f) discovered by the French

ANNA

Expedition. We enter from the W.; the tomb soon bends at a right
angle towards the N... but finally resumes the direction from W. to E.

The three first passages have either been destroyed or were never

completed. The way to the fourth crosses a deep trench, which is not
easily crossed without a ladder. It contains

several representations of the reception of the f """"""
king by the gods. The gods are making Nini' l, D,

4g). are pouring purl--K--MA 122. are: pouring pari








"um...
fying water over the hands of the king. The countenances are all well-formed and even gentle
and the colouring is unusually well-preaerved,
but the face of the Pharaoh has everywhere been
obliterated, as his successor. Amenhotep IV. Khan 252525252:
en-aten (p. 23), discouraged the worship of Am
man, which Amenhotep III. favoured. Some of
the pictures have been only sketched in. and the
field divided into squares. Portions of the Book
of the Dead are painted in

red upon stucco. The care
cophagns has been broken;

and beside it Its human """"' _'

1301188 (no skull), perhaps'B---- belongingtothekin, whose
mummy was not gonad in the shaft of Der el-bahri. Fragment) of the
coffin of Amenhotep 111., found in this tomb, are now in the museum at
Gizeh. The Astronomical.Ceiling-painting: in the chamber with the sarcoyhagus are noteworthy. The chambers beyond this room have no inscriptions and are full of bats.

The second tomb, called by the Arabs anbct chKurdd (Tomb
of the Apes) is in a very retired spot. It belongs to At

(a :1 q _ _ q Ci T) (0933.:

the 18th Dynasty.

A staircase descends to an apartment, with coloured inscriptions, and
containing the magnificent sarcophagus. To the right is a portrait of the
king, with the serpent--sceptre and birds, and. and beside him is that of his
wife, whose name, like the king's, is scratched out wherever it occurs.
To the left are twelve sacred apes, with double names. The king before
the dark-green Osiris, and again before the goddess Hersekhet, who pore

forms the'nini' (see above) and places the symbol of life in his















month; four white-glad genii of death, sitting opposite each other in
pain, Kebscnnf and "mm with the crown of Upper ": é'é:.; .--.

Amset and Hopi with that of Lower Egypt. In a boat named y
W








