Tombs of the Kings. THEBES. 20. Route. 203

are Harmachis, Tum, lord of An (Heliopolis) Shu, Tefnut, Sch, Nut,
Osiris, Isis, and Horns. Behind the boat is liephthys. hdwining are
sepulchral inscriptions.

On the steep clifi' near this tomb is a ruined hutin which aCoptic
hermit is said to have sought a retreat from the world. Here, as
elsewhere in the Biban elmMuldk, names have been inscribed by
Egyptian scribes, Greek travellers, and anchoretic Christians. The
still undiscovered Tombs of the Kings of the 18th Dynasty (Amenhotep II., Tumes IV., and Horns) will perhaps one day be found in
in this W. valley.

b. East Valley of the Tombs of the King;

The E. valley, usually the first visited, contains the tombs of
kings of the 19th and 20th Dynasties. On the right (W) of the path:
/

% (° (W [ "137 T EDI

./
No. I. Oj O) l
Ramses VII.

A Chamber. To the left the king sacrifices to Ra-Harmachis or is
being greeted as justified; to the right he sacrifices to Ptah-SokarOsiris, enthroned as the beneficent god of the deep, who addresses the
king:'Thy name remains fresh, according to the judgment of Sokar
Osiris, while thy body rests in the coffin. But thy heart appears daily
in thy disc'. The union of the king with the sun is indicated by these
words. To the left is a boat with a disc, round which a serpent winds,



and two companions and symbols of'that great god Khnum';

above, worshipping figures and serpents rearing themselves aloft. To
the right, a sevens-lino inscription to the goddess of the deep and of the
tomb. To the left, 18 figures who'extol Ra, bewiteh the serpent Apep
(Apophis), and present their sacrifices"; beneath is the boat of the god,
who sits in a tent, round which a serpent winds; Hekau and "appear
as his companions here, as in numerous other paintings. Four fi ures,
preceded by a guide, drag the boat, and other gods accompany it, Adjacent
are the words:'this great god travelling on the path of the deep, and
the gods of the deep drawing him'. Beneath are about a score of
recumbent or fettered enemies. The inscription rune:'Tum accomplishing a name Med, bringing destruction upon his enemies; I
vindicate my father Ra against you', etc. To the right are curious figures,
9 serpents, 7 genii mm tsurrsHseads, and numerous others, standing,
reclining, and enclosed with serpents _____ a frame; also five women with
arms hanging down, on the sign'5" the meaning of which is mu
undetermined. - In the corner of Room I, me high-priest, clad in
a panther-skin, oliers upon an altar a sacrifice to Osiris. Below the roof
the goddesses Reboot and Use, with vultures" heads, spread
their protecting wings over the king's cartouches .--- 11. Chamber, containing the sarcophagus. To the right and left of the entrance are
represented the tutelary deities of the dead, Ur-heka, with a flower, and
Sekhet am, who bestows'the duration of life". On the left wall:
Various scenes of worship of Osiris, who appears as a mummy, or lies
in his coffin, or is represented as the Body of Ra with the head of shell
or of a crocodile. Beneath are four worshippers, then Osiris and Nephthys,
tearing their hair as a sign of grief, and then gods with heads of animals
or men. On the right well are other curious figures: the worship of the
sun-god with a ram's head, Tatunen and Seb worshipping (iris, who
stands beneath an awning, Turn destroying his enemies with a lance.
An officer of those appointed to bind the worthless (enemies) may also
be distinguished. The entire room is surrounded with a








