204 Route 20, THEBES. West Bank:

.--; - On the rear-wall is the king and the disc of the sun.

- ill. Chamber. The king, bearing the symbol of truth on his hand,
appears before Osiris - A kind of standard, com aged of the various
signs of power and protection; sacrificial table; oat with two discs
in the midst of which amid. a pig. - A Greet: Inscription proves that
the tomb was known and accessible in Geek times.












(i' 3 the some55..5. .j __' 9 I

what larger tomb of Rams-231?. To the right,
before the entrance is a Coptic inscription
with a cross and a corpulent bishop raising
his arms in prayer. Above the door are Isis
and Nephthys, worshipping the solar disc



with Khnum and.

To the left, in the first Corridor, appear the
king worshipping Harmachis, and the large sum
lar disc (Vol. L, p. 133). Behind, in good preservation, begins the'Book of the praise of Ra
in Amenities" (45 lines). The continuation of this
inscription in the second corridor and on the
right well of the first corridor is not so well
preserved. The Second Corridor contains two
other inscriptions:'Worship of the infernal
gods, when Ra parishes in life; the other,'0
Re, come to thy son Above are numerous

demons m the Third Corridor are serpents and.
praying men and women, like those in Tomb 1.
Farther on are other worshippers, before the cot-fin and the nuns headed Khnnm (Kneph), and
then an inscription:'0 ye gods of the deep and
b H of the tomb of Amentbes, who guard the doors',
etc. Room IV, a smaller square apartment, has
an inscription from Chapter; 123-126 and 127 of
the Book of, the Dead, which contain the Jtsetijtcation of the Dead. Room V, the main chamber:
a Boat of Ate-Ra, who stands beneath a canopy,
encircled by a serpent; in front is the king, kneel
I



ing, with the symbol of truth in his hand.



Bolton and Sa also appear in u The inscription runs: Thus this great god traverses the
path of the deep'. (The god is uniformly named

W?

, the am » or rather the Body of Ra, in

these inscriptions) Farther down is Home, with
the wards'The deed of Home for his father;
he make! him noble; he rewards him'. Opposite is an exactly similar representation, except
that Home is replaced by Tum with a-lance in
front of the coiled Apep serpent, while the inscription runs: 1" The deed of Tum tor y, for
he made the god noble, mung m. enemy The
boat with Am Ba and the













