xxiv EQUIPMENT.

35 bottles of red Voslauer } at 2% f 1 bottle of whiskey
25 ~ "white - White - vermuth

bee A little champagne for festivals and
1 bottle of brandy ibottle of cognac the reception of guests

a haugingdarnp, bought in the Muski for 20 fr, suspended over the
saloon-table, and a pack of playing-cards were found very convenient

The above stores, purchased for 283., not only were amply sofaficient, but "2'03. worth was returned to the dealers at the end of the
voyage. For no one should omit to make an arrangement entitling
him to return unused stores (at a reduction of about 109/3 on the
original price) and to have the agreement entered on the invoice.

Other stores, such as eggs, fresh beef, buffalo-meat, mutton,
poultry, oranges, lemons, etc, are taken only in small supplies, it
being easy to replenish the larder en route, either from the steamers
or still better from the markets on the banks, where prices are moderate The cook makes the purchases and submits his accounts

Average prices Fowl, 11-9 piastresa according to unlity; fat turkey,
45-er heir-turkey 22--38 arr of pigeons d-gd sheep 12% - 350; 16 eggs, rut ]
(about 15 on) of butter £3-15; rotl of beef, 5--8; mil of mutton A-5 pieatres

Various kinds of provisions, including some delicacies, are to be obtained from me, baking): or small dealers of Mayan, Assist, Kan », Lumen
Essen, and Arcade

Tobacco for chibouques may be obtained in the bazaars, also
at Amos, Keneh, and Beach; the best mixture is 1/2 Gcbsli and
1/2 Kurdni The best Turkish tobacco CStsmbtb11) and cigarettes
may be bought in Cairo from Nestor Gtunuchis and E. Zalichi f Jaw
conamu in the Muski, Voltcrre Prices at the post-tie, and Cortessi,
Ezkebiyeh, next the Café de la Bourse. Good cigars are also kept
by Conessi; those to be obtained en route are bad.

Medicine. Comp. VOL, L pp. 15, 473. Some Antipyrine, 5031-.
of quinine, some laudanum, a supply of zinc or other eye-wash,
rhubarb, etc. should not be forgotten.

Clothing and Equipment. Clothes such as are worn in autumn
at home are the best for the Nile. Boots must be stout and watertight, Slippers, bathing-shoes for the clayey Nile baths, both thick
and thin stockings, flannel shirts, a broadubrimmed hat, a'werm
overcoat, and a substantial rug should not be forgotten. A sun-u
umbrella and kufiyeh, a silk handkerchief or muffler, blue or grey
Spectacles, and a leathern cushion stuffed with horse-hair will also
be found useful. Saddles, which may be hired in Cairo, should be
taken, especially if ladies are of the party, for the donkeys hired at
the various points do not always have saddles. Explorers should
provide themselves with a long and strong ladder; N well u a
magnesium lamp or magnesium-wire (to be obtained in Cairo) .--Photographic apparatus should be brought from home, for chemicals
are either not obtainable or very dear in Egypt, and good dry platen
am scarcely to be obtained. The plate should not be more than 8 to
10 inches at the largest. The traveller should superintend the one
stem-house examination in person.





