Tomb; of the Kings. THEBES. 20. Route. 205

victory, for the enemies are bound or lie upon the ground .--- Beneath
the roof extends the double body of Nut, apparently supported on the
left by She. The visitor should observe the constellations on the body
of the goddess of the sky, the demons of the constellations, the three
crocodiles (one sitting on the back of another) and, farther down, the tables
of the hours. The goddesses of the hours have distorted (too broad) faces.
The roof is vaulted. The sarcophagus is 10 ft. long, 6 it. broad and
"We ft. high, and is adorned with re resentations. In the next corridor
are inscriptions:'0 ye gods of the deep', and'Doorkeepers of the tomb",
em Then follows a representation of the boat of Khnum above the double
lion. To the left of the praying king are the worde'May the coming in and
the going out be blessed", recalling a similar Christian wish. In the room

behind is a representation of the mummy of the king, repeated 17

and then 23 times; finally comes a bier, beneath which stand canopi.

A representation of the tomb of Ramses w., giving the dimensions.
occurs in one of the papyri in the museum at Turin, published by
Lepsius.

No. 3, to the left of the path, is filled with rubbish; but it is
known to have belonged to another Ramses.

No, d, Tomb of "3'3 (or according to Maspero Ram
see KIL).

(._ j 55-; m)
i [ if..... { I } < 22 » WW. NW
The tomb is not quite finished. Even in the First Chamber are out..
line drawings upon the stucco, most of which, however, has been scratched
away. To the right and left the king sacrifices to the god of the wind,
who has four rams" heads, to the emerged, and to Mersekhet. In the
last chamber is a wide and deep shaft, in which perhaps coffins still are
to be found though probably already plundered by the fe1ltsliim In the
Second Corridor, as in many other tombs, above ground, are niches
sunk in the rock, and generally bearing a long series of gods or demons.
They served probably as depositories for vessels, canopi, am

No. 5, farther on, to the left, is a hole without inscription.

u. _________________) (, EU LEG »
















5.':'2 Q

Ramses IX. (according to Maspero Ramses X., a finely executed
tomb. Before the door is the disc, with the king on both sides
worshipping it. Behind the latter are [ sin and Nephthys, who exelsim'Praise be to this god when he comes forth from his mother,
to lighten the earth with his beams'.

to. Chapel, in which the king stands before Ra-H-sus and
Osiris .---- b. Inscription from the 125th chapter of the Book of the
Dead. _ e. Chapel, with the king standing before Amman and the
goddess Mersehhet, to. the subterranean Esther and Hecate .-d. Worshippers with heads of jackets and bulls. The scattered
stones in the side-trumble are a serious hindrance to the visitor.
....... In Chamber 11., at the entrance e, is the large serpent, rearing
itself, with the words'0 than great serpent in the tomb, who there
watchest the door of him who dwells there, that he do not escape
his watchers in the darkness'. At f is another serpent, with the
address'0 ye serpents in the hidden place, who watch the gates of










