_ of the King ». THEBES. so. Route. 20?

hands the symbol of truth to Ptah,'the lord of heaven, the
king of the north and the south, with the beautiful countenance', in front of whom is a small hgure'of the goddess Me.
- o. The black mummy of the king lies stretched out over a
constellation. The disc and scarabmns float above it. - l. The
back--view of a man with extended arms and legs, eight times
repeated---- - At an appears a boat gliding over the coils of the

snake, with the scarabmus and the two Uses--eyes

in front of it a series of serpents being killed with poisoned
arrows. - At n are four figures bent backwards, taking the sand in
their months, and spitting it out as a young child. Beneath is a
border of bound enemies and, under the roof a number of persons
with no inscription .--I V., defaced except at s, where a priest,
clad, in a panther--shin, sacrifices before a standard .--V. is completely destroyed .--VI. Disc with worshippers. The refrain of
the inscription here is'Ah, I have penetrated into the deep, and
the enemies of Osiris are destroyed'. Room VII, with much defaced astronomical pictures, in all probability represented heaven,
the Help of mum. The dead entered it after he had overcome the
various obstacles and had been justified. The 125th chapter of the
book of the Dead, relating to the justification, must have seen-pied Room V. Above the entrance of Room WI, the disc with
Khnum is worshipped by the Benti-apas, and under the roof stretches
the long double body of Nut, the goddess of heaven.

Opposite, on the right side of the path, is Tomb 7, half filled up
with rubbish. Visitors are warned against the snakes in this tomb.
This large and spacious tomb, difficult of access, belonged to

o:

<'





A..." Ramsesu. or XII The

coffin of Ramses II. was found in the shaft of Der el-bahri 111 1881;
and the remarkable mummy of a man over eighty years old was
unrolled Papyrus-rolls now in London and Liverpool describe the
plundering of this tomb (see p. 199).

No. 8. lies in a side-gorge, a little to the right of the path. Near
it, to the left, is a rock with hieroglyphic inscriptions, preserving
for us the names of several of the writers This tomb belongs to



) l (e i C'i'i,'C'i'i," ] 2:0??? Merenptah L, the

supposed Pharaoh of Scripture who moraldorsourml to hinder the
Exodus of the Children of Israel, and is said to have been drowned
in the Red Sea.

Above the entrance are Isis and Nephthys, worshipping the disc

with Khnum and tr In the adjoining inscription, Harmachis and

Osiris grant the deceased a seat in Amenthes. M. I. Corridor:
to the left, a. The king before Harmachis. The for r we 5 the














