208 Route 20. THEBES. West Bank:

high feather--crown m,'he praises Ra, he extols Harmachis'; the

latter bears the sceptre 1 and in his hands, and says'I give

thee the beginning of Ra'. Farther on (b) is an inscription containing the'Book of the praise of Re and of Tomi in Amenthes'.
This rubric occurs only here and in the
tomb of Teti IT.; it is followed by the text
of the Hakennn (praising), continued at c

on the right in tolerable preservation. This
is the most important inscription in the
r',,, ,y) (Tombs of the Kin a and it is here more



perfect than in No. 6. Beneath the roof

are the goddesses Habsng with the vulture's
head, and Uzi, with the snake's head, extending their wings over the cartouches of
M the king. - 11. d, in the recess are gods
and demons; beneath is the soul of Ra,

T k a mystic form, also frequently represented
as a talisman. The side e, to the right, is
:5 destroyed. Then above, to the left, are
other gods, with the great cat beneath. At
f and 9 appears Anubis, god of tombs, and
before him Isis or Nephthys. The goddess
I speaks:'I come, I extend my protection
to thee, I give thee breath for thy nostrils
and the north wind which proceeds from
Tum, and I praise thee'. At h three gods









are represented, with three crocodiles below and the Uar-tesin

Srs'rt I). At t. and is. is an inscription,'A prayer to this
I

great god of the tomb' .---- - HI. 1, Boat of Afar-Ra (flesh of Ra), in
which are Home and Seth (Typhon); beside it, the snake Nehebha,
with three heads, four legs, two wings, ate" and other gods, apparently sidereal. « - At m, Boat of Atom-Ra, with Aphern, Horheben,
Nehes, Ho, and other gods. The inscription is'He approaches
hither, this great god, while they draw him to this tomb'. Above



are the standardsczl of the cycle of the nine gods, to which belong

Khepra, Sim, Tefnut, Seb, Not, Osiris, Isis, Nephthys, and Mam
netert. m IV. is a small ante--chamber. At or, to the left, the king
is received by the demons Amset, Tuamutef, Anubis, l'ior, Neith, and Sells. Below is Anubis, with Tnamntef before him; to
the right is Horns, with Kebsennf before him. m- V. Large chamber.



