Tombs of the Kings. THEBES. 20. Route. 209

The pillars usually bear representations of the king standing before
a god, sacrificing to him, worshipping him, being touched by him

with the symbol $ 3 etc. To the right, at o, are two kinds of

serpents in ponds, first the Urmus~serpents q

.2 a
min, and second the serpents of life "Anhhtu. To the

left, at p, is a long row of persons (Herein), worshipping the god of
the under--world. On the rear-wall, at q, where there is a descending passage, are representations of a double shrine and of the king
worshipping Osiris, with the inscription:'He is surrendered to the
lord to all eternity'. There are no inscriptions in the passage, as
the tomb was never completed. m At r is an inscription:'They
gaze at the view of Ra, they enter following him', ate, To the right
is the boat of Aim-Ra:'this great god being drawn by the gods
I 5'



is'i c the'bearers

of the deep" Above are many figures, like

of the Metau', am, a large serpent, and other forms, of which the
last 13'the leader in his corner, who commands men in the underworld'. At a, in the rear wall, to the left, is the boat of Amalia,
with Hekau and Se. Throughout the chamber are inscriptions from
the Am tout, the Book of the Underworld. - The sida-chamber VI
has only a few paintings in a recess in the left wall.

Ramsesfl.

: :7 \J"

This tomb was named by the French Expedition La Tombe de la
Métempsychosc, and by British scholars, following the groundless
traditions of the Romans, the Tomb of Momma. This large tomb
is characterized by an abundance of mystic representations and inscriptions, of which, however, none are executed in a good style.
Coptic and Greek inscriptions are most numerous in this tomb;
among them one to the afloat that'Hermogenes of Amass has seen
and admired the Syringes, but this tomb of Memnon, after he had
examined it, he more than admired' (or admired more than the others,
uuspcdouncou) .---~ It is a remarkable fact that the cartouches of
Ramses w, are superimposed upon others, which either represent the
earlier name of Ramses VI., or probably of his predecessor Ramses V.

Before the doors are representations like those before No. 8. - I. To the right is the king before Harmachis, to the left, before Osiris,
then the serpent Apcp, demons with heads of bulls and serpents,
chained captives, etc. m H. Representation like those in Room v. of
No.8: "the heniu of the deep','the bearers of the cord in the fields ofthe
deep, etc In a chapel with steps appears Osiris, and on the steps are
men with a guide. Above re a boat, out of which an ape ls driving.
Human""







