Tombs of the Kings. THEBES. 20. Route. 2"

occupied by a continuous representation of the vault of heaven,
embraced by the long extended figure of Not, with the Noise hours
of the day (Q) and those of the night Oh). At the end are two celestial charts, and tables of the culmination of stars during the
hours of night, from fortnight to fortnight throughout the year. (Similar tables are found in Tomb 6.) The results are arranged on the
different parts of a human figure. Biot, the French astronomer,
used these tables in calculating the date of their formation. - IF.
First small antechamher. To the left: picture of the serpent Kheti,
darting fire against tattered forms; demons stand upon it. In the
second row are persons'bathing and swimming' in Nun, he. the
ocean, and also souls praying. To the right: Disc, serpent, and at
the left angle a curious representation of Sch; then (in the left
angle) the serpent tearing up, and'this great god' in ithyphallic re » presentation. V. First Room with Pillars, considerably deeper than
the preceding. In the corner to the right, the boat of the sun upon
the hands of Net; above the door (twice) Osiris and the king offering sacrifice. Under the roof, Nut. - The bodies of two gigantic
winged serpents with crowns stretch hence down into the following
room; to the left is Hebent, with the double crown. to the right,
Mersekhet, princess of Amenthes, with the crown of Lower Egypt.
........ "VI. and VII. Are two farther corridors. The representations in
the former are so mystic as to defy description. The latter contains gods, serpents, boats, the moon Q, and, above the door, a
hitherto unexplained iigurts. - VIII. Second small antecharnber,
with inscriptions: the king before Me, the goddess of Truth, and
Chap. 125 of the Book of the Dead. _ "IX. Room, a large hall, of
which the corner pillars remain unfinished. The sarcophagus placed
in the centre is destroyed. On the pillars appears the king praying
to various gods This has been called the Hall of Astronomy, ion
account of the representations on the roof, which have been executed
with the greatest skill and with incredible labour and trouble. We
here see, twice, the goddess Nut, with stars and gods, who sail in
boats on the lake of the heavens. The deities of the hours also
appear, with curious symbols beside them. Next the entrance is the
sky by day, towards the back wall, the sky by night. The imagination of the artist who designed this ceiling--painting was 1ieorrms
tioue, as the immodest representations in the left angle indicate.
On the long wall to the right, above, are the Hours, looking
behind them, and each casting on the one preceding a ray from
the disc on her head. Then follow the most varied forms of
the light-god, the solar-adios, the stars, eta; and finally an inter-a

eating *Representation of the boat of the a accompanied by Khepra

and Turn, being drawn on the waters of Nun or the celestial ocean
over the eastern Aker or lion of the horizon, and sinking from the
western, being received by Tatunen The 1" hii; fir:,, ,!,, :),:, !,:, ,,', thi' cr Y e Sh 61 a








