212 Route 20. means. West Bunk:

or Cataract. The remaining figures are repetitions of those seen
elsewhere. On the left wall the paintings representing the punishment of enemies and evil-doers are particularly interesting. In the
last room, the names of the hours appear to the side; straight in
front are the sun's disc and a divine figure. The last is held by a
form, beside which the king sits, saying:'Praise be to Amman-Ra,
Harmachis, to the great fire-disc, to the light-god Khepra in the
boat of Seti, Tum, when he parishes, to the beloved soul of heaven,
the venerable Sekhem, who there causes fruitfulness t

No. 10 destroyed. The stucco has been torn from the wane,
and the shaft filled with rubbish. It belongs to a king Amomnesee,
whose position in the 19th Dynasty is uncertain. It is, however,
certain that he preceded Ramses 111., for the tomb of the latter (see
below) has had to curve to the right to avoid impinging upon this
tomb of Amonmeses.

M'No. 11

Ramses m, This imposing tomb, usually called'Brucca Tomh' or
'The Harper's Tomb', owes its existence to the lavish builder of
Medinet Habu (p. 172). Inferior in size only to No. 17 and No. id,
this tomb with the former of these, most deserves careful examination. The style of the sculptures is not the best, but the variety
and richness of the representations are unexcelled. This tomb possesses a unique peculiarity in the ten side-chambers, one on each
side of the first corridor, and four on each side of the second corridor.

Above the door appear Isis and Nephthys praying on their knees
to the sun--disc, as at No. 8. At the entrance here the oartouohe
of Ramses III. has been chiseled over that of his predecessor Sati
nekhi (so 1 fu, who rests in Tomb No. 14 (p. 215). At each

side is a pillar, with a bull's head in bas-relief at the top. - I. (to
the left): the king before Harmachis; then the'Book of the entailing of Ha in Amenthes'; in poor preservation. Of the two side-w
chambers in this corridor, that to the left (No. I) is devoted to the
Festival. Oxen are being slaughtered, their flesh out in pieces, and
thrown into cauldrons. A. servant is blowing the his, while another
wields a ladle. A second group attends to the wine. All kinds of
eata'oles, cakes, and implements are at hand, and the cooks are busy.
Two dancers enliven the scene with their performance; In sidechamber No. 2 (to the right) a dhahabiyeh in full sail is ascending
the Nile, and another, with sweeps, is descending it....... . H. In the
recesses is a long series of demons, including the'great cat', the
'lamenting onu', with hair hanging down, etc. To the right, the





, A large number of the pictures and inscriptions in this tomb have
been published by Champollion in his Notices (vol. 11., pp we seq 5' the
rest by Lefébure in his Hypogees Rovaux (vol II).








