214 Route 20. THEBES. West Bank:

, and sofas of great beauty and splendour. No. t, to the left,



both richly adorned. Also two serpents, one with the crown of Upper Egypt, the other with the crown of Lower Egypt. At No. 8 (to
the right) a landscape is represented, on the banks of the Nile, with
men ploughing, sewing, and mowing. Other men are filling the

granaries', the celestial deities approach, and the boat of the
sun-god appears on the horizon. At No. 9 (to the left), are two
Harper's, one, to the left, before Anhur and Harmachis, the other,
to the right, before She. and Tum, with the inscription'these are
the two harpers who play to the infernal deities'. By the door is the
refrain of the song they are singing:'Receive the blessed king
Ramses'. No. ill, to the right, is the Osiris Room, in which Osiris,
with whom the king is now united, appears under 12 different
forms and names. - III. The Pharaoh offering to Turn and Ptah,
on the left, and to Ptah-Sour-Osiris in a coffin, to the right. In
the right corner, Osiris, lord of the under-world. Towards Room re,
the king surrendering the symbols of his power to Anubis. The
tomb here makes a slight bend to the right in order to avoid the
adjoining tomb of Amonmeses (p. 212).... I V. At the entrance are
prayers to the internal deities, and two-headed and three-headed
serpents, etc. In the recesses, Khepra. - F. The king standing before gods .---- ~ VI. Chamber with two pillars. Serpents and figures
bearing symbols, bearers of Ama (serpents), and, to the left,
bearers of Nennuh. In the left corner are representatives of the
four races (p. 219) subject to Pharaoh conducted by Home. This
same subject appears also in Tomb 27.





': E Tmehu with pointed beards,'i l Ama, yellow
I light brown (Libyans). I (Semites).
g Nehesn, black Q i Rein dark
"I (Egyptians).

TIL, (much blackened by time). At the entrance, Neith and
Salk, to the right, the king with one hand grasped by Harmachis,
before whom he stands, while he stretches the other to Thoth, rem
presented as the moon-god. In the other paintings are spirits
engaged in mowing and reaping. - Passage For, contains a representation of the ceremony of erecting the image, in which the
crownuprince, the high priest with the panther-skin, the Kherheb
with the book, and other spiritual dignitaries take part. The inn
scription contains the ritual used on this occasion. The king
confesses his sine in presence of several gods. - X. This large
chamber, supported by eight pillars, was found by the French Expedition to contain a sarcophagus, now in the Louvre. The lid,
which was wanting, is new in Cambridge. The mummy of the king








