Tombs of the Kings. THESES. 20. Route, 215

from the shaft of Dér el-bahri was discovered in a large coffin of
queen Nofrotari, along with a female mummy, which fell to pieces.
This is the'astronomical' room. On the wall to the right, AmmonRa spreads wings like a bird; while elsewhere there are numerous
representations of stars, the hours, em, and other curious figures.
The paintings in the small rooms at the corners also refer to the
sidereal bodies; 6.9. stars in No. It, the cow in No. 14, etch - XI.
At the entrance is a green ape with a bow. Then, to the right,
men with lizards in their hands', probably indicating length of
years, for th, ash means'many' or'numerous. m XII. The last
rooms and recesses are devoted to Anubis-headed gods, La. with
jackals heads, and especially to gods of the dead.

No. 1?. Gave, without inscriptions.

No. 13. Very low, and largely filled up, shows the cartouche
of Self H.

No. 14. (a






Siptah and his wife m: (a
Also

~ (o Tlllxhqm

Seti Hokht

This tomb originally belonged to an anti-king Siptah and his
wife Tamer, but it was afterwards appropriated by Scti-Nchht,
father and immediate predecessor of Ramses 111., and suppressor
of a rebellion in his kingdom (p. 172). Whether the tomb also
contained the names of Seti 11., who rests in the adjoining tomb,
is exceedingly doubtful; they are not new visible. The queen Tauser
is more conspicuous in the paintings here than her husband, whence
it has been justly inferred that Siptah founded his claim to the
throne on rights vested in his wife.

L, to the left: The queen before Harmachis, and before Anubis;
King Siptah before Isis, and before Hows; the queen before Nefertum-Hor. Then a Hekemm imseriptiom To the right: The queen
before Fish and Ma, Siptah and his consort before a god, the queen
before Harmachis, Esther, and Nephthys, Hathor with flowers .-----H King 866 Nekht before Somti. Champollion believed that he

had here discovered the cartouche of Soti Nehht l s2) engraved

act. as a as n (T)

H
and Siptah Now, however, there is no visible trace of this superposition, which would assign to Siptah a date anterior to Seti H.
m 1H. Anubis and other genii, armed with knives, wet h i fund













