216 Route 20. THEBES. West Bank:

of a chapel,'to keep on the evil ones'. Hathor again appears in
the doorway at a .--I V. Large representation of Anubis and the
genii of the dead; and also of Isis and
Nephthys. At on is the king, stem the
high-priest with the panther-skim--V.
Above the door Anubis and Home sacrim
flee to Gait-is; figures with knives in front
of chapels; beneath, the king. In the doorway the winged Me, for only truth may
find admittance here. The Ha nub

m or Hall of Gold.'The act of the

opening of the month by the royal likeness
in the Hall of Gold.'The high priest (Sam)
is represented with the staff and pantherskin, the Kherheb with the book, and
there are priests of inferior rank who take
part in the ceremony. Besides these there
are people introduced and named as Those
who come to the tomb','One who enters
that he may see it' etc. They appear to
make offerings. A peculiar kind of incense
(bet) is used. The columns of text below
this representation contain a ritual consisting of versicles and responses by the
priests and the son who has set up the
likeness of his father. A special birth-day
festival is also referred to, and mention
made of another ceremony which occurs
elsewhere,'the opening of the ayu' with











a e hook. - VII. Anubis by the bier and
f the canopi beside him. - VIII. Antechamber. Representations of the gods:
Osiris enthralled, Isis, Nephthys, Home,
Sch, Ptah, embracing Ma, offerings brought
to Harmachis and Me, Thoth with the moon Q upon his head; on
the door to the next principal room, Ma with wings. - IX. In this
large hall a second sarcophagus may have been placed, and the
representations of coffins and seats render it very probable On the
right hand wall is Ammon-Ra as a bird with outspread wings, on
the left the serpent, at c the boat. A god with the head of Seth and
Home spreads his hands over the double lion, at d is a swimmer
in the ocean. - The corner room and the succeeding side-wings
remain unfinished .--E and X! are empty. - XII. The colouring
of the carved stone ends here. The serpent Asian-horn is seen with
many heads, also the boat--XIII. A chained serpent with knives
in its back and captive foes m- X1 V. The hall of the sarcophagus








