Tombs of the Kings. means. so. Route. 217

is damaged in many phone, the pillars being entirely destroyed.
The sarcophagus of Queen Tensor bears her likeness between Isis
and Nephthys.

No. 15. (.



This scarcely completed tomb lies farthest up the valley. The
king in addition to the ordinary titles is called'Sun of the earth'3
and'Sokaris'.

I. To the right and left of the entrance is the winged In. On the
right the king makes offerings to the Ra of Marsupials, he presents his
to the god fisher-is of Merenptah; then begins the book of praise of Ra
in Amenthes the first art of which is carved and painted, but the and
merely sketched in re. 011 the left is the worship of the god Ptah,
well preserved. Farther on. the disc with the crocodile, and the 75 Hekennu or invocations to Ra the almighty. The stone of this tomb is
dazzling white like marble- « ~11. Outline sketches for the Picture of the
boat, etc.---- -ln III are sketches which are barely visible. - V. a the kin
in a man boat, 5 leis and Nephthys. Also symbols and banners---.
Over the door two offerings are made to Osiris there are also the boat,
and the basin, the bearers of the measuring line. of me, mm, and of
the Search A sloping passage leads downwards from the hall with pillars;
all the rest is destroyed. The torso of a broken statue of his lies on

the ground.
[ I q 1 suit...
[ W

No. "has no inscriptions.

f 2:;

"No, IT. (O (D is
usually known as BelsonN Tomb from it discoverer in Oct. 1817
In beauty of execution it far surpasses all the other tombs of Bibin
el-Mull'lk, and the sculptures on its walls appear to have been
executed by the some artists whose works we had the opportunity
of admiring at Abydos. In size it resembles Nos. H and it; its
length is 330 ft. The descent is made by a steep flight of steps,

in which it resembles only the tomb of MI

J, On the left begins "The book of the praise of Ra in Amonthes',
which has been edited by Neville. It says:'When this book is read,
the figures of clay are upon the ground at the going down of the
sun, he. the lordship of Ra over his enemies in Amenthes; who is
wise on earth is wise also after death'. This paragraph of the book is
followed by a picture divided into three compartments, in the
middle a scar-shade with Khnum, below a crocodile with an auto--lope's head, above a serpent with an antelope's head reversed. The
first chapter begins in the first corridor on theleft, and runs straight on,
occupying only a part of the wall. In the second corridor on the left
begins the second chapter, while the upper part is covered with the
15 forms of Ra in long niches. The two sides of the second corridor
contain the 2nd, 3rd, and part of the 4th chapters. At the and some
passages were omitted, and the rest of the 4th chapter was placed
on the part of the right hand wall of the first corridor that was yet
unused. - H. Here the process of the work m: t: ,y,,, es d PE"



Beti L,












