Tombs of the Kings. THEBES. 20. Route. 219

the other Token-her, or torch-faced.'They illumine', the text by
the side tells us,'the hidden dwelling, they close the door after
the entrance of this great god'. Near them is seen a double door,
in which are represented nine mummies one upon the other,
guarded by two fire-smoothing serpents. At n we see the basis, the
worshippers, the'cycle of the god' in the boat, and the god being
drawn along, and lower down Turn 0) destroying his enemies with the
lance. All these scenes are taken from the Book of the Lower
World. Here also are to be seen the four nations which we met in
Tomb H, Room VI. The Libyans and Egyptians are fairer here. Ate
are the bearers of the measuring-line, the bearers of the serpent, the
souls (bats; mummies with heads of birds), the people of the lower

world, and the bearers of the Hats I,, at { u the bearers of the Metau,

of the Anna serpent, of the Manon" A, a chain which comes from
the neck of Osiris. On the entrancewwall to the right in the second
row is the boat of Ma-Ra with So and Hekau, drawn by the dwellers
below, and lastly the mysterious bearers of the Secret. In the third

.4..
row is Tutti 4' } on a serpent Neheb, on which twelve mummies rest,




'they who tarry with Osiris, who have travelled hither and am
weary'.--'; this hall on the left a flight of 18 steps leads into
the long Passage VII, and so to the other rooms. At the back of Room V
a small flight of steps leads to Hall VI. The inscriptions in this are
merely written on stucco. In one place we see serpents which spit fire
at figures lying upon the ground, in another we see them roasted
in an oven, scenes suggesting the Inferno of l) ante.--p Demons
carrying a serpent before the boat. q Others with bows and spears.
r A new standing on the symbol of sovereignty, a ram, and a bird
with a human head U" all scenes of the 9- » 1'2th hours of the
Am-mat. The outline sketches of some of the unfinished figures
are most remarkable, and some of the greatest modern artists have
expressed their astonishment at the master-whand which they display.
--me VII other steps lead down to vm, the Hall of Gold, of the
priestly ceremonies of the'opening of the mouth' (ap-ro), Un-.
fortunately it has not remained uninjured, though on the whole in
better preservation than the hall of gold in No. 14.--- ] X. The king
before the internal Hathor, Anubis, Isis, Horus, Hathor and Osiris,
twice repeated; then Fish in his shrine.--E, Large hall with six
pillars. Unfortunately some of the reliefs on the pillars have
been removed, and in consequence, this, the finest hall in the
tomb, threatens to fell in. s t On the door to the right is seen the
serpent Akebi, to the left the serpent Sada-set, and passages from
the Book of the Lower World. The dwellers below praise Ra, and
offering is made by'those in the depths' by the side of 24 figures
who drop their hands in prayer, below is the boat of ht-fit with






