220 Route 20. THEBES. West Bank:

So. and lichen, drawn by'those who are in the depths'. To meet

those represented here some other gods'who have already found

admission'. Below all is Tum, the conqueror of the fora, who lie

bound on the ground before him. Again we see the boat, the heniu,
and the men or people of the lower world; also the members of the

household of Ra, to which belong (i) nine apes which sing when Ra

enters the depths, (2) fire--breathing serpents



E which illumine

the darkness in the depths, (3) nine men with arms upru'ssd,
who praise Ra on the ninth of the month, (Al) twelve women who
do homage to Re, when he enters the Atur names, or Ocean. The
roof contains astrological figures, lists of decani, constellation: and
the like, below is Api etc. The magnificent sarcophagus of alabaster,
together with the fragments of the lid, discovered here by Belzoni
(Oct. 19th 1817), is new at the Scene Museum in London. It was
empty, and the splendid mummy of Seti L was discovered in 1881
in the shaft at Dér el-bahri Cses p, 219) in a sarcophagus borrowed
from the high-priests of the 21st Dynsstr--XI, Serpents at the
door, boat, recumbent Osiris, etc. mXH. Astronomical figures.
The cow, supporting She, and surrounded by worshippsriu---xm,
Larger square room, with one of the pillars supporting the roof
destroyed. Round it rung a parapet on which statuottos, vases,
amulets em, probably stood. The astronomical figures are sum
coedingly difficult to understand; below is a serpent with the heads
of the four genii of the dead. it The boat of Afu-Ra with his usual
companions. At their head Isis, with hands outstretched, exercises
a serpent, which has many knives sticking in its body, and is hold
by the neck and throttled by a goddess .--XI V remains unfinished.
The rudely constructed passage which slopes downwards some
70 yds. farther offers nothing more, and the traveller may now return
satisfied with what he has seen, and astonished at the labour which
it must have cost.

Ramses X The name which is

half destroyed can have belonged to no one else The tomb contains nothing worth a visit, but is a convenient place for luncheon.

No. 49 is not a king' s tomb, but was made for a prince of the
19th or 20th Dynasty, a royal scribe and commander-rnwchrof named

Raunesns Mournunnnunnornsuur



The inner part of the tomb is filled up. The portrait of the deceased
should be noticed. In 1885 several ornaments, fragments of a gar"
ment of many colours and with gold buttons, etc. were discovered
in the tomb.

Near the above is a passage sloping downwards for 80 yds., first
in a westerly and then in a southerly direction, which may possibly










