Ecstasy: THEEES. 21. Route. 221

have been connected with the shaft of Diir tsi-tsum', in which the
royal mummies were discovered.

'21. From man el-Muh'ik to ol-Asasif
and Der.

From Bib e1-Multk we need not return by the way we came,
but may take the path over the hill which separates the Tombs of
the Kings from D6: el-bahri and ole-Asasif. The path, which cannot
be missed, begins at tomb 18; from tomb 17 which every one will
visit, it is reached by going a few steps to the west. Persons not
equal to the climb may ride to the top, but it is a great strain upon
the donkeys. Riding down the hill is by no means to 393 recommended. The donkey-boys usually lead the animals by a narrow
path over the ridge, and await the travellers at the foot. The zigzag
path is fatiguing but safe, and is easily accomplished in 3/4 hr. The
'5' View is most remarkable; first into the desolate valley of the Tombs
of the Kings, then from the summit and as we descend into the peculiar ravine of Dér el-bahri; we see the steep projecting mountain
side with its tombs, and buildings old and new, with the rich green
of the fertile plain below spread out on both sides of the Nile, and
here and there its groups of palms and gigantic temples, as far as
Kernels and. Luxor on the E. bank.

Those who are interested in the prehistoric stone-age, and the flint
implements of the childhood of the world, may notice at the beginning
of the path as well as on the top of the hill, and as they descend to Der
el-bahri, several open spaces covered with fragments of flint. Lenormant
and Henry considered these to be prehistoric knife-manufactories, and the
myriads of fragments lying about to be the work of man; but Lepsius
has proved that they are nothing more than the fragments of flint nodules
such as may now be seen lying about, which split owing to the rapid
changes of temperature. The traveller will in fact find thousands of
fragments resembling knives and scrapers. And this is only natural for
whether the splitting is due to nature or to art, the same shapes are likely
to be constantly produced. The calcareous limestone of these hills is full
of crystals of silex. The walls of the tombs may be remembered with
the dark broken nodules which stand out against the light--coloured limestone. What Hamy and Lenormant took for flint, manufactories at the
entrance of Bihan el-Multi; are only heaps of stone, out out of the rock
with metal tools at the making of the tomb. The fragments of limestone
and flint were necessarily removed from the excavations and were thrown
down on the sides of the valley. On the other hand Virchew assumes
a prehistoric Egyptian stone period, and considers the stone-fragments
df Dér ei-baVi to be to some extent artificial productions.

Before turning to the temple of Dh al-balm' which is seen, with
the tower of elay-bricks, as we descend the hill,' visit should be
paid to the Necropolis lying between Shékh'Abd el-Kumah o, 190)
and Drah Atm'i-Neggah (p. 199) known as
B1ituhf. The part to be visited is known by the Arabs as eluAsosif clmbohriychor the northern Asasif. Numerous tombs of various
periods lie here in the series of low hills, which form the back as
it were of the steep rocky'range rising behind De; I bahri Only










