222 Route 21. means.







a few tombs at elu- are usually visited by the ordinary traveller.
Some belong to the 18th and 19th Dym, but the most important
are of the 26th. Broken walls seem to indicate that the cemetery
was divided into sections. We also find here various brick buildings and a large arched doorway. During Mariette's excavations
many mummies were found. not in regular tombs, but either in the
earth itself, or in small vaults 3 to 6 ft. below the surface. In some
of them, papyruswrolls of great value were discovered. The tomb of

Petmenap (Cl S) is larger than Nos. 14 and 17

A M G

at Blbin el-Muluk, and is worth a visit on account of its great size.
Petamenap was a prince of the empire and an official of the 26th
Dyan, whose remarkable position entitled him to the unusual honour
of completing buildings at the temple of Medinet-Habu, and of
placing his name upon them. The tomb is cut out of remarkably
beautiful limestone; and its inscriptions display the neatness of
finish which is peculiar to the sculptures of the Egyptian renais-n
sauce. It has become the home of thousands of bats, which render
the attempt to copy the inscriptions in the inner rooms very difficult
by constantly extinguishing the light. The smell, moreover, which
they cause is so strong and offensive that a thorough inspection of
the tomb is recommended only to those who can overcome the feeling of nausea. Any one who is subject to giddiness should avoid
going far into the tomb, as in the middle it is necessary to balance
oneself, though only for a few steps, along a narrow path on the
edge of a deep shaft. Sir Gardner Wilkinson undertook the measurement of the tomb, and the inscriptions have been almost completely
copied and partly published by Diimichen. These are important
chiefly for the details of the funeral ceremonies.

The entrance, as in almost all the tombs in this part of the noose »
polio, is by an open courtyard without walls, 103 ft. wide by 63 l deep, and its roof
is supported by two rows of pillars. All the walls are ornamented with
inscriptions and reliefs carefully executed, but new unfortunately much
injured and blackened. These, almost without exception, refer to the fate
of the soul in the lower world. ~--A vaulted Corridor leads into a second
large Room (53 ft. by "n.) in which 8 pillars remain to prevent the roof
from falling, while in the Room adjoining it, 32% ft. square, only 4 have
been spared. A Chamber with niches ('21 (t. by 12 it.) concludes this series
of rooms, the total length of which together with the courtyard is 312 n.
The nature of the stone having apparently prevented further advance into
the rock in this direction, the masons turned to the left and dug out a
wide Hall, and also to the right, where six successive Passages were
made at right angles leading to a small room. Those not being on the
same level were connected by flights of res ctively 9, 23, and 9 steps.
In the small room mentioned is a shaft it. deep with a chamber.
Caution is necessary here. This series of usages in length.
From the room containing the shaft a rridor runs again to the
right, and leads to a transverse Chamber, making so ft. in this direction.

However, before reaching the nap: on the second line, we find leading
to a second shaft a fourth set of passages to the right, 125 it. long in a

a, straight direction. Adjoining this on the left is _ lorg mum t8 n.








