De cZ-dchri. THERES. 21. Route. 223

square, in the decoration of which the central block is treated as if it
were an enormous sarcophagus. In fact the Sarcophagus of the deceased
lies below the centre of this block, and is reached by means of a perpendicular shaft, 18 ft. in depth, at the end of a Corridor to the right of
the main passage. By descending the shaft, a room 191/2 ft. deep is reached,
and from the roof of this there is an entrance to the sarcophagus-hall,
which is exactly beneath the square block above described. The length
of this private tomb without the side-chambers is 862 m, and its superficial area 2470 sq. yds. or with the Metsftrrllaushers 2600 sq. yds.

To the N. of this huge tomb are several smaller ones of the
same period, with finely worked antechambers, and false doors, and
carefully executed inscriptions. Some of these, especially those of






contain valuable contriu

okert or Nitocrl's C q < 13?
as Q as



butions to the knowledge of the family of Pharaohs which formed
the 28th Dynasty. A queen Nitocris of the 6th Dym, known as e
pyramid-builder, is said to have been beautiful and light-haired,
With her may have been confounded the princess of the 26th Dyn.
with the same name, who was buried at elvAsasif, and lived shortly
before the famous courtesan of Naucratis, named Rhodopis or the
rosy-checked. Nitocris the older and Rhodopis were probably called
by the same name, he. the fair one, in the mouths of the Egyptians,
and Herodotus hearing that the'Fair one' had lived shortly before
Amasis, confused the two, and reported that the courtesan Rhodopis
was considered the builder of pyramids, See Vol. 1., p. 346.

The Tenace-Temple of D6: al-halp'i.

This temple derives its name, meaning the North Church or
North Monastery, from an ecclesiastical brick building of the Christion period, the remains of which are mentioned on p. 227. Der
el-bahri is reached from tsl-Asus" in iOminutes. Its situation is
remarkably fine, its terraces which we ascend, being framed by a
semicircle of high and rugged rocks, of a light brown and golden
colour. If Thebes had been in Greece, this is where its citizens
would have placed their theatre. The Egyptians whose thoughts
were Inner of death than of life, founded a sanctuary for the
worship of the dead. Apparently an avenue of sphinxes, of which
some traces remain, connected this with the landing-stage, where
boats coming from Karnak on the W. bank were anchored. This
magnificent work was carried out during the rise of the New Empire, and the numerous processions of pilgrims began in the
16th cent. 3.0. The laying out of the terraces was begun by Tutmes L, and completed by his daughter, Queen Hatshepsu, or Ha-,
tatra-Ramaka, familiar to us as the raiser of the great obelisk of
Karnak o, 133). Here too her brothers, Tutmes H. and 111.,
although their names are mentioned, fall into the background
when compared with their energetic and ambitious F ter. After







