224 Route 21. means. West Bank:

wards Tutmes m, erased in many places the name of his obnoxious guardian, who seems also to have been the wife of his elder
brother Tutmee IL The great monarchs of the 19th Dym, Seti L
and Ramses IL, Merenptah, son of the latter, Ramses UL, Pinozem,
one of the priest-kings of the 21st Dyn, Taharka, the Ethiopian,
of the 25th Dym,
Ptolemy IX. Euergetes IL and his wife Cleopatra, and Ptolemy X.
Lathyrus, all contributed by works of restoration to prevent the
building which had been completed under Bataan from falling
into decay Both the style, and the inscriptions tell us that Dér elm
bahri is to he considered completely a work of the beginning of the
New Empire. The size and simplicity of its parts, and especially
the polygonal columns are a sign to those who are familiar with
the development of Egyptian architecture, that the Hyksos period
must be considered to have been a time of stagnation in Egyptian
art, and that exactly the some forms and arrangements of columns
were common to the architects of the 12th and to those of the
18th Dynasties. In Thebes, and not least at Der elmbahri, the observer is tempted to regard the New Empire as an Immediate continuation of the Old, although between them lies a period of five
hundred years.

The plan of this terrace--temple is remarkable, and cannot be
compared with any other in Egypt. The arrangement in four
terraces rising from the level ground up the steep side of the Lie
byan mountains is quite unique. The stages were cut out out of the
E. slope of the mountain, and support was given to the outer and
inner walk; by magma of blocks of the finest sandstone. At the S.
and of the terraces we can best see the care taken to support the
earth--works. The outer wall consists here of finely polished blocks
of limestone with simple bat effective ornamentation. Broad pi- « i
lesters, but only 3 in. deep, placed some distance apart, project
from the wall with which they are connected. Above each is
enthroned a gigantic hawk with the crown of Upper and Lower
Egypt standing upon an Urmususerpent, and above it is the symbol
of life supported by an litmus-serpent.

A long Avenue of Sphinx", probably beginning with a pylon,
near the entrance to the tomb of Petamenap (p. 222) led up to the
series of terraces, the successive stages being reached by steps
placed in the middle.

The First Terrace (beginning from below) is almost entirely
destroyed, but we can make out the pathway which led from the
bottom to the top, and divided the whole into two equal pun. Be,
low the Second Terrace (Mariette's Terraces ds iHM) are the ruins
of a Hall, supported by columns of 16 sides, which in this form
were used only under the 17th and 19th Dynasties. The pressure
of the earth is sustained by a lofty inner wall on which are some
well preserved inscription », and representations of ships, soldier's








