Da- estate. THEBES. 21. Route. 225

with axes, olives-branches, etc. Lying on the ground is a peculiar
capital, such as may be seen also in other parts of the temple, consisting at e cube, with the mask of the goddess Hather carved on
the front and back. The upright broken sham should also be
noticed; one half was treated as a pillar, the other as a polygonal
column with 7 sides, and an inscription was placed on the surface
of the pillar.

The "Third Terrace (Mariette's Terraces do Centre) deserves
especial notice. Underneath there were on each side, left and right,
two rows of 11 square pillars which together formed two halls, 88 ft.
long, open to the east. Of those the pillars of the left hall still
stand, only two remaining in that on the right. These halls supported a roof, of which all that remains is a fragment of the architrave and a broad slab on the it pillars in the back row. The
scenes represented on the inner wall and on the left side are of
great interest.

Disregarding for the present the part of the temple to the left (Spwa
of Hatter, p. 227) we begin with the right side of the inner well
below the third terrace. The first scenes are somewhat damaged,
but those which follow are in a good state of preservation, and refer
chiefly to the expedition on which Queen HatasueRamaka sent her

MAW

ships to Arabic Punt. l Remake represented as



king, with the double crown on her head, and the clad in her hand,
before Ammon-Ra. There is a long but obliterated inscription.
2 The queen with two bowls full of grains of incense, and with
the helmet on her head, before the sacred boat of Amman--Ra. The
boat with a ram's head at each end is carried by priests, of whom
the two in the centre are high~priests, clad in leopard--skins. Next
we see 7 Nehautrees in Who, probably incense-bearing trees imported
to Egypt from the East; men with tube are piling up the incense
in heaps. Above are the weighing and measuring of precious metals,
as may be seen elsewhere. The weights used for weighing the gold
rings are in the form of oxen lying down. The goddess Safehh marks
the result on a tablet. Next are 3 Hebe-trees. Below is seen a group
of 8 cattle, two eating the reed-grass on the river-side. The scene
reminds us vividly of Pharaoh's dream (G en. 1).'And it came
to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed: and,
behold, he stood by the river. And, beheld, there came up out of
the river seven well-favoured kine and fat-tusher, and they fed in
the reed-grass', Nee! this are sacks with cosmetics (mcstcm). Again
we find the king with the insignia of power. Than 2 rows of ships
belonging to the fleet which RamakanHatasn sent to Arabia. The
shape of the vessels, their rigging, ears, and rudders should be
noticed, as well as the cargo which can be seen on board, and the
leading by means of a small boat. The necessary explanations
are given by small inscriptions above the pictures To the left,
Brahmas Upper Egypt.. 17





