225 Route 21. THEBES. West Bank:

below, is an'inscription of "lines, of which the 8th and 9th
were destroyed by Ramses IL, for the purpose of inserting his own
name in honour of Amman-Ra, the lord of heaven, am. It speaks
of'the voyage on the sea, the beginning of the great journey to

To actor, is. the holy land, the happy arrival in Ambit of

the soldiers of Pharaoh, the lord of the world, according to the
command of Ammon, the lord of the gods', sin. n--Another inscription between the trees, to which the boat is fastened, tells us
that Punt as well as Arabia Potters was dedicated to the goddess
Hathor. To the left of the two ships are 10 lines describing by name
the different kinds of wares which sailors are carrying on board along
narrow planks.'Loading of the ships with untold quantity of
valuables from Arabia, precious kinds of wood from the holy land,
heaps of the grains of incense-gum (kemi-ent-anta) t, Nehut trees
of fresh incensnwgmins [ ima ], ebony (h sisai) for sacred vessels with
gold and silver from of the land Ama (Asia), Deceit, and Khesitu
wood, possibly cassia-bark, grains of Ahem tit, incense and cosmetics (antimony), Alum and Kefu apes, Desem beasts or greyhounds, coloured panther-skins from the south, natives and children'.
The inscription concludes with the statement that nothing like it had
been done under any king before, and it speaks the truth. Hatasu
showed her people the way to the land whose products were later
to fill the treasurios not only of the Porsche, but also of the Jews. _ These pictures are of special interest as
exactly illustrating 1 Kings x. 22:'Once in three years came the navy
of Tarshish, bringing gold and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks'.
Except these last named birds all the treasures may be seen on the
vessels of Bataan. Her expedition must have been accompanied by
some nature-loving priests, as below the ships we see the water-line

W
W in which are swimming various kinds of the most remarkable

W
fish of the Red Sea. The drawings of these are so characteristic that
Prof. Doenitz has been able to determine their species. Among them
are Naseus unicornis, Xiphias gladius, Platax Tana, Balistes assasi,
Acanthurus velifer, Chaotodon strigangulus, Scams virideecens, etc.
In a sole'ona eye was drawn larger than the other, showing a fine
observation of nature'.

On the wall adjoining the right-hand corner there was to be seen
until a few years ago the transport of the incense-trees, 9 soldiers with

otiicers, and in two places, one above the other, the prince of Punt, named
Pirate, coming from the left, and followed by his wife, remarkable for her

'1

Q
H q 0 haunt, resinous exudations from
o

various trees, comes our word guns.
ti- From the fruit of the Does tree a sacred ointment was obtained.
tit These belong to the mineral kingdom.





