Dir eta-baht. means. 21. Route. 227

obese appearance, seen and a daughter, as well as a donkey, to carry the
princess on her travels. Unfortunately this piece of wall has been destroyed by tourists, and only a small fragment showing the princess and
her husband is preserved in the museum at Gizeh.

The representation ends with a settlement of the inhabitants of Punt.
It lies close to the water which is populated by fish turtles, and crayfish,
and it would seem as if the inhabitants we're lake--dwellers. At all events
their conical houses rest upon piles. The door could only be reached by
a ladder, which the artist has not forgotten to represent. Palms and insense-trees give shade to the village. In this southern landscape appear, or
rather used to appear, on the right a cow reclining, and on the left a longtailed bird flying through the air.

The third terrace was formed by the roof of this hall, on the
inner wall of which were the above-described paintings, together
with a Temple, placed in the centre and supported by round columns
and by the ground behind. From this terrace a well-preserved
granite doorway leads to the burial chambers lying behind (see
below.

At) the end of this terrace to the left there is a remarkable small
Sanctuary dedicated to the goddess Rather, and built by liaison and
her husband-brother Tutmes 11., which should not be left unvisited.
The two outer rooms are in mine, so that even the partition-walls
betweeen the halls lying one behind the other are scarcely recognizable. Some of the pillars and bases of the columns, however, are
still upright. We turn to the right and find the remains of a Hathor
Cow. There are also some more paintings of ships, but very faint.
On the outer wall of the temple built into the mountain, is an ex
licking the hand of king, is. queen Remake. As the adjoining
text says,'She licks Home to whom she gave birth'. To the right
of the door is Tutmes Ill. (Ra-men-kheper-ka), and within Tutmes II. who built the door and gave his name to it.

The Burial Chambers lying behind are reached through an antechamber with two small niches on each side. This is succeeded by
another long room with a flat blue ceiling, ornamented with red stars
at one time probably gilt. On each side of this funeral chamber
are niches. Next is a narrow room with two niches. At the back
of this last on the two side-walls above the shaft is an exceedingly
interesting'Representation of Queen Hamel }, drinking the milk of
life from the udders of the Rather Cow. The cow is the finest piece
of animal painting which has come down to us from Egyptian antiquity. The cartouche of the queen was erased, probably by order
of her indignant ward Tutmes 111. when he became independent.
All the inscriptions and paintings in this room (cynooephali, lions,
etc.) are perfect in style; those in the niches tell us that these were
used for the storing of offerings,

The last or Fourth Terrace is badly preserved. We first come to
a granite doorway built by Tutmes IIL en the central path, on the
left hand side of which we see an inscription of the 3rd year of
Merenptah L Next we reach the tower and fragments of well, both
of rough Nile bricks, belonging to the monastery or "church which

152 $





