228 Route N, THEBES. West Bank:

has given its name to the place. To the left are the remains of
other rooms. The name of Ramses IL, inserted by himself as a
correction, should be noticed; behind are offerings for the dead. The
fine roof is not a true vault, the stones lying horizontally and being
out out. The colours are fresh; to the right and left of the door
are Tutmes 1H. and Tutmei IL; over the door 4 bulls. ~--Ascending 34 steps farther we reach another granite doorway also built
by Tutmes UL, through which we enter avault sprinkled with stars.
This last rests against the wall of rock which rises above Ddr elubahri, without being out into it. A second archway with 2 aider,
niches leads deeper into the mountain, and there is a third unvaulted
room which was constructed under Tntmes L of the 18th Dynasty,
but appropriated by a distinguished official named Amenhotep,
under Ptolemy Euergetes IL, and his wife Cleopatra. The inscriptions of this later period compare very disadvantageously with
those of the time of the Tutmes kings.

From the N. side of the third terrace it is possible to area into the
Burial Chapel, half filled with rubbish, which is supported by 1 eighteen »
sided columns in four rows, and contains two empty sarcOphagusncbests.
On the inner wall are Anubis end offerings for the dead. This is followed
by a vaulted Chamber the arch of which is pointed, and from this a similarly vaulted Passage rune "at a right angle to the W. of which is a
very small Room, also vaulted in the same way. We thus find three vaulted
rooms, each smaller than the preceding. In front of this arrangement of
tombs there was a building of which there now remains (on the right
as we leave the tombs) a Colonnade with 7 eighteemsided columns, hearing an architrare, the astragal, and the concave cornice. These rooms are
much choked up, and full of fragments of mummies, and linen rags. In
later times they were used as a common burial ground. The same fate
from the 26th Dyn. onwards betel the rooms at the end of Which is the
line picture of the Hathor Cow (p. 227); but these are new kept clean and
easily accessible.

On the fourth terrace mo picture! of a procession have been preserved. Of the row of ships naming is left but the waterline: below them,
but it is from here that a picture of a ship now in the Berlin museum
was taken, with an accompanying inscription telling us that the Procession
was arranged by Tutmes m, in honour at Tomas It,

At no great distance from Him elvbahri there is a roughly worked
passe a out, only about an. high and scarcely accessible, which was explore by EM". It leads into a sepulchral chamber, entirely covered
with semi-hieratic inscriptions, in which was buried a princess named
stm, a favourite and perhaps the mother of a princess Bataan belonging
to the early period of the New Empire or, according to Neville, to the
11th or 12th Dynasty.



This neighbourhood should not he quitted without a visit to the shaft
from which the famous royal mummies were obtained. In order to reach
it we walk over the heaps of sand to the right at the foot of Ddr ebbahrl
(or we may take an easier path from the village and tombs of Shékh
rAbd elwlflurnah down the slope to the west). In scarcely 10 min. we are
in front of a narrow chasm in the rock, up which there is a sine climb
for admission. Above is the Shaft, Git. A strong rope and great caution are necessary in order to be
let down. At the bottom is an entrance 5 ft. wide and 3 ft. high which
leads in a straight direction for 24 it. This passage then turns to the right
in a NE. direction for the length of more than 195 ft, its height vary »
rug from G to 13 ft. To the right time or six rude steps lead to a niche.



