Der rotate. means. 21. Route. 229

Straight on is a room about 25 ft. long. Here on July 5th 1881 Emil
Brasserie discovered the famous royal mummies, now in the 6-inch Museum.
Since January 1876 Ushebtis, tablets, and large funereal papyrus rolls, all
coming from this spot, had been sold to wealthy tourists through the
medium of Mustapha Age, the Eu lish consular agent at Luxor. Attention
was aroused by the Papyrus or ornnm a queen of the 21st Dyer, which
was produced in several pieces, one of which is now in the Louvre, another
in the British Museum, having been presented to the Prince of Wale », and
a third in the possession of a Bel ian lady. Enquiries showed that there
were several brothers'Abd er-Ras 1 who were especially concerned in the
me of these anti cities. The arrest and trial of Ahmed, one of the
brothers, followed y flogging, led to no result. However partly from fear
of punishment, and partly for a promised reward the secret was betrayed
by Ahmed's elder brother Mohammad, to the Mudir of Keneh, who gave
information to the Khedive. Brugsch describes the discovery as follows:

'Every inch of the subterranean passage was covered with coffins and

antiquities of all kinds. My astonishment was so overpowering that I
namely knew whether I was awake or whether it was only a mocking
dream. Resting on a coffin, in order to recover from my intense excitement, I mechanically can my eyes over the coffin-lid, and distinctly saw
the name of King Self 1., the father of Ramses u, both belonging to the
190.): Dynasty. A few steps further on, in a simple wooden coffin, with
his hands crossed on his breast, lay Ram": 11. the great Sessstris himself. The farther I advanced, the greater was the wealth displayed, here
aimed-splits 1., there. Amorts, the three Trims, Queen domes refer-tort,
Queen Aahhotep, all the mummies well preserved; in all 36 coffins, belong!
ing to king » and their wives or to princes and princesses.....
"By the evening of July lith all the mummies and coffins had been
carefully asked at Luror. Three days later the Museum steamer came
to carry the precious burdens to mutt. From Loser to Koptos on both
sides of the Nile, the felldhin women followed the boat with loosened
hair and uttering plaintive cries, while the men fired "guns, as at a
funeral. The coffins were taken to the museum at 361515, and thence
removed to the new museum at Gizeh. - The discovery included King
Racehorses, of the 17th 133711., the opponent of the Hyksos; of the 18th Dyn.
King Address, queens Actress nofsrteri and Aahhotep, kings Amends-tsp 1.,
Tarmac 1., 11., and IO,, prince ottoman, princesses Sttomoo and Merl »
tomes, Retreat a priest, and others, of the 19th Dyn. Ramses A, Sets 1.,
and Ramses II. Ramses III. of the Ahh drs was also afterwards found.
Of the priest-kings of the let Dyn. Pioneers, Nozemit, Remote with her
daughter, a second Hussein, queen Hathorhontfauf, Marchirta a priest, two
princesses Ashton-theta and Nestkhonsd, and others. There were also found
a large leather tent in red, green, yellow, and white for Ashen-then, the
daughter of King Museum, 40 canopi, 8700 statuettes of Osiris, 12 to 15
ceremonial wigs, and AS wooden chests together with inscriptions, bronze
stools, papyrus rolls, and the like. The inscriptions found on the older
mummy-schools, as. that of Soil 1. and on the wrappings, were of great
importance, recording that the mummies had been taken from their tombs
by the priest-kings of the 213: Dyn. (Harbor, Shaman, Pinozem, and liasahirta the priest) and removed to that of a lady named An first or Au
hope, in which also lay Amenhotep L In the Abbott Papyrus which is a
Human enquiry into the robbery of the tombs the passage 120 e113 long
to the tomb of Amenhotep L, which was to the k. of the temple of Amenhotep, is mentioned. This corresponds to the passage in the Der el-bahri
pit. The colours of the garlands of flowers were marvellously well
preserved. The wan na have been named by Prof. Schweinfurth.

On June ist 1886 by the wish of the Khedive the unrolling of the
mummies, a somewhat bold proceeding, was taken in hand, beginning with
the grey-hired Ramses the Great, whose sharp features and curved nose
arovremarltably striking. In. the coffin of Notes-tart the mummy of Rammu III. was strangely found. Then followed Seti L with his mild features,
Rmekcnen with his fierce look and broken skull, having perhaps fallen in
battle with the Kheta, Aahmes 1., and the priest-hinge of shes A mummy












