230 Route 22. From mm

unknown showed terribly distorted painful features, as if it had died by
poison. m me warm "a month all the mummies were enrolled, unease
ured, described, and core red up again, though whether they will long survive the process remains to be seen. Excellent photographs of the mommies enrolled were taken by Emil Bmgseh, the conservator of the museum.

in Feb. 1891 another large rock-tomb was discovered to the E. of the
temple of Der el-bahri containing 163 mummies of priests and dignitaries
of the 19th, are, and aim Dyn. besides a large number of papyri, omnstatuettes, chests and boxes, hesitate of flowers, funereal ofieriugs, em
Several of the sarcophagi are elaborately adorned with religious scenes.
Judging from the manner in which the sarcophagi were piled upon each
other, and from the fact that several of the mummies m dimmed, it is
probable that, like the royal mummies, they were hastily removed from
their original tombs to preserve them from spoliation. The contents of
the tomb are new as mun, where the deciphering of the papyri will be
undertaken

22. From Thebes to Edie.
Comp. Map 9. 98.

67 M. Steamer, up in 111/2, down in 71121113.; Dhahabtyeh In 3-5 days,
according to the wind.'

The picturesque forms of the Arabian side of the Nile remain
long in view, Kdm elmlléttn being the last of the Memnouia to disappear. In 2 hrs. the steamer reaches
9 M. (W. bank) Erment, the ancient Hermonthis, with an important sugar factory belonging to the Khedive.

The place contains nothing also worth seeing. as the temple buildings
distant About I hr. from the town have been almost entirely destroyed,
or built into the factory. It was a Memoirs or birth-place dedicated to
so: fig the goddess Ratofi, who as mother of the young Home is compared to Cleopatra, and contained pictures of the famous Cleopatra VI.,
and of Ca union the son of Julius (laser and that qfiueen The Tmpk cou'
mm of a court with comma, about 56 n. wide y 66 ft. deep. This was
followed by a long room, surrounded by columns, in the centre of which
was the cella in several divisions. The length of the whole tern is was
190 ft.; the front faced southwest, Until a few yam ago the es la, and
5 columns on the left, and 2 on the right of the foreocourt were standing; scarcely anything now remains.

To distinguish it from the northern An or Heliopolis (VOL L, p. m

Emma wu knuwn in hieroglyphics as W he. the An or On
8 m 8
of the god Month, or Ce. An Kemat, or the southern An, a

name which probably applied to the whole district of Thebes, to which
it belonged in earlier times. Later it is mentioned as the capital of a
special district or name, and large portions of Thebes were included in
it. Under the Ptolemies an important royal excisewoffice had its sent here.
---- - A Christian Church, now in ruins, must at onetime have been a building of considerable size.

Travellers who have abundance of time, should land. The bank
is shaded with stately sycamore trees. Close by are a clean Banner
and a shop kept by a Frenchman. Donkeys for him. A good read,
bordered with trees and traversing a wellncultirated district, leads
in less than Ulf-an-hour to the village, among the houses of which
lie prostrate column; The inhabitants cherish the curious belief








