to Edfu. GEBELEN. 22. Route. 231

that Moses was born here. Near the cemetery are some ancient substructures, with fragments of inscriptions recording that Hermonthis, which must have existed even under the old monarchy, was
adorned under the 18th Dyn. with fine buildings for the deity of
the city. Strobe relates that Zeus and Apollo were worshipped and
that a sacred bull was kept here As a matter of fact the menu"
merits, besides mentioning several female deities, name Month
(Zeus) and seven forms of Home (Apollo) as the chief gods at Hermonthis, while the coins of the Nomos Hermonthites bear the figure
of a bull turned towards the right, and preparing to fight, with
lowered horns and extended tail. The Pharaoh is described as falling upon his foes, like'Month, the bull raising himself to combat'.
------At Rizdgdt, 41/2 M. to the S.W. of Erment, a stale of the 18th
Dym was found, in which this place is named Aimetim.

On the right bank, facing the curve which the Nile describes at
the village of Sendai, lies the village of Trial, the ancient Tuphium,
with a ruinous chamber, the sole relic of a small temple of the
Ptolemies. Maspero recently discovered here a granite sacrificial
table, with a dedication by Usertesen I. to the god Month. Steles
of the 12th and 13th Dyn. (new at Gizeh) were found at Salamiyeh,
13/4 M. to the W. of TM. . At Mealdh, on the E. bank, are fragments of a sphinx with the name of Amenhotep L

On the W. bank, 13 M. above Erment, and opposite a large island, rise two rocky heights, known as Gehelén, he. the'twe moantains', on one of which is the tomb of a Stitch March, probably
confounded with Moses (see above). Here, on the site of the ancient





\\

polio, which, according to Strum, must be looked for between Henmonthie (Erment) and Latopolis (Esneh). Extensive excavations
carried on at this spot by Maspero yielded sarcophagi of the 12th
Dyn. and also numerous domestic articles, etc., appropriate to persons of comparative poverty.

On the W. bank, 2131/2 M. farther up, lies Bench, the ancient
Latopolis, a town of 9000 inhab., where the tourists-steamers halt
for 3 hrs, while the mafia-steamer on the downward voyage steps
all night. The profane name of this place under the Pharaohs was

§ Sen, whence came the Coptic arm (Sue) and the Arable,
Esneh. Esneh has large grain and cattle markets, at which prices
are lower than at Assnan. The town, in which there are numerous
coffeeuhouses and. ghawizi, is somewhat notorious for the dissolute
disposition of the otherwise industrious inhabitants, many of whom
are employed in wool-weaving. The Bazaar, at the entrance to
which is a kind of Market-Place, is tolerably well furnished. The
streets are well built and some of the shops are European in aim
racter, There is also a Druggist's Shop. Passengers usually land





