232 Route 22. ESNEH. From fishes

either near the former Mudiriyeh (nokrernomyd to Kebab), besid e
which are some ancient riparian constructions dating from the Beman imperial. times, or near the post-is, a little to the N, where
the steamers lie. The chief object of interest is the Temple, - and if
time permit the garden of the Khedive to the N. of the town (p. 235) may also be visited. The former
lies 1.0-4.5 min. from the landing--place (see above), and is reached
by passing through part of the town. The old temple-site is at presentfiused by the Excise Office for storing the grain, beans, and
other tribute paid in kind, but travellers will have no difficulty in
inducing one of the br-Standee to fetch the keeper who will unlock
the door. Cards empowering a visit to the antiquities must not be
forgotten (see p. xiv).

The unwalled Tample is in reality only a Eypostyle, which evidently
from its size must have belonged to an unusually large sanctuary. The
ground-level of the town has been raised by accumulations of rubbish etc.
to the height of the capitals of the columns, so that travellers demand
by steps into the interior of the building. Above the rest of the temple
now pass streets, the removal of which would probably bring to the light
of day many monuments of antiquity. The caveats of the French Expev
ditiou ware profoundly impressed by the sight of this huge colounaded
hall; and as the traveller standing in front of the steps leading to it,

gazes down into the mysterious twilight of the ancient sanctuary, he cannot but be struck by the air of solemnity that pervades it.

The remarkable I"Hypostyle of Beach is built throughout of
excellent sandstone, and remains in perfect preservation with the
exception of the lower part of the rear wall, which has been somewhat corroded by the saline exudations of the soil. The noble hall
is kept clean by government. The roof is borne by "columns
(in 6 rows), the first six of which are connected by balustradaa; and
a dim light penetrates to the remotest corner of the hall between
the columns. The facade is 120 ft. wide and almost 50 it. high; the
rectangular hall is 521/2 it. deep and 108 ft. broad. Each column
is 37 it. high and 17% ft in circumference. The intercolumwniation is 11/2 times the diameter of the We; nu except in the
central passage, where it is nearly 3 times the diameter. Upon the
somewhat lofty abaci 0f the columns rests a massive architrave,
which supports roofing-slabs, 22-26 n. long and 6% ft. wide. It hue
been calculated that about 110,000 cubic feat of sandstone have
been used for this one hall alone. The enormous wall-space, the
entire ceiling, the shafts, the ante (on the facade), and the archim
trays are covered to the last inch with inscriptions. Though these
last fall short of the dignity of style which claims admiration in the
earlier works of Egyptian art, yet they display that remarkable care
in the representation of details and that elaborate variety of form
which at once distinguishes the inscriptions of the time of the
Ptolemies and of the Romans, and renders their interpretation more
difficult.

The temple of Esneh was founded not later than the 18th Dyes.
under Tamas m., according to one of the inscriptions; and prob







