to Edfu. Emit. M, Route. 233



ably the sanctuary founded by that prince still lies beneath the
houses of the town. The hypostyle, however, must have been mined
and rebuilt under the Ptolemies, for the adornment of the hell he »
gun by these princes was continued by the early Roman emperors
"and completed by their successors. The inscriptions on the rearwall were begun by Ptolemy VH. Philometor. The Dedication Inn
scription above the entrance celebrates the'sutmarstg' Tiberius,
Claudius, Germanicus, and Vespasian as the builders, while a share
in the decoration of the interior was taken not only by these princes, but also by Titus, Domitian, Nerve, Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus Pius, Marcus Aurelius, Commodus, Septimius Severus,
Caracalla, Gate, Julius Philippus, andDeoius (249-251). The name
of Decius is specially noteworthy as being the latest imperial name

that appears in hieroglyphies on any Egyptian monument.
It appears in the following capricious form :--
205



U q Q m « :3 "in""
Y? :25:.....




m
cm
J°°'§

Orv







Q man 52*? M

to. the sun, the lord of both worlds, the autocrat Caesar, son of the
sun, and lord of the diadems, Tobie cuts-Mn, in. Aémc oeMistor, The
emperor 056" a fire-altar to Khnum. On'the main architrave is Vermin »:
on the ahncnu end entraucwdour Titttet 0n the lower side of the main
architrave Domitian' on the columns Ema end Trajan Nerve occurs here
only once and is found nowhere else. Autumn!" Ho, Marcus Aurelius,
and Commodus, occur on the exterior wall; and the last also on the N.
half of the W. wall and on the N. wall. Sepftmiec Severus, Commits, and
Gate appear on the N. and S. walls; Coveralls and Julius Philippus 0n the
left half of the rear-wall; and Doctor at the foot of the rear-wall,

The building, referred to several times in the inscriptions, as
the'House of Khnum', was dedicated to the ram-headed EllesmRu, with whom, forming a triad, appear an Isia-Neith under the name
Q (Nebuut), and a peculiar Horns--form, named Hirka.
There was also a special cycle of gods of Esneh ac the head of
which was Rheum, followed by Re, Tum, Khepera, Shn, Osiris,
Home the son of Isis, Thoth, and Khunsn. Strobe narrates that
Athena and the fish Lotus were worshipped here in Latopolis; and
he was not misinformed. We not only find the latter mentioned in
the inscriptions of the hypostyle, but the lotus gave the town its
name under the Greeks, while the coins of the Letopotiton Nome
bore the figure of a fish, and finally an inscription at Edfu informs
us that the people of Latopolis were forbidden to eat fish. Athena
{ Nebula } frequently appears, as we have seen; and as Strobe makes
no mention of Khnum, who was undoubtedly the chief of all the
gods of this sanctuary, it must be concluded that he was for some
reason led to assign to the lame the place of this deity. Ppobably





