234 Route 2?. ESNEE'. From Thebes

this fish, which appears not only on the come, but is also represented with the disc between the home, was used as a symbolical
representation of KhnumnRa, especially as we actually fin



united with the fish on the rear-wall of the temple 1;

The SIDE WALLS are entirely covered with paintings end in »
sseriptiomu The former show the king making offerings, to various
divinities of the temple, who promise him in return the good things
of life. At the foot of the wall to the right of the entrance is the
emperor Commodus with Améris and Khnum capturing with a net
the various products of the Nile (birds, fishes, plants, em). On the
other side of the not is Safelrh. This symbolical representation P'-'
sibly refers to the legend according to which Horus fighting against
Seth-Typhon fell dead into the water and was drawn out of it
again living, - a legend, which is connected with the course of
the moon. A main door and two side portals are seen in the rear-s
wall of the temple. The latter probably gave admittance to a corridor surrounding the Sanctuary, which was entered by the central
portal. Recent excavations in this direction have hitherto remained
without result.

On the pieces of wall between the pillars on the Front are several highly important inscriptions, of which by far the most
valuable is the celebrated Calendar of Festivals on the wall-pillars
to the right and left. A specimen of the eccentricities and trash;
indulged in by the hierogrammatists under the Romans, may be
seen in the crowd of crocodiles on the pillar at the extreme left of
the E. or entrance wall.

The 24 Columns of the portico are specially noteworthy on account of the shapes of their capitals, some of which are over-laden
with ornament. Of the columns, 18 stand detached, while 6, towards the front, are built into the outer want All the columns have
flat plinths, and shafts most elaborately adorned with inscriptions.
The Capitals are of various shapes and of unequal height, but this
irregularity does not offend the eye owing to the fact that the annuli
of all the columns are arranged so as to lie in the some horizontal
planet Most of them belong to the calyx order, and are not adorned
merely with painting as at Kamak or the Ramesseum, but with
richly carved ornaments from the vegetable kingdom.

We begin with the front row, reckoned from the right wo, Columns
143: Four petals, separated at the to, surround the calyx, which is ornamented with marsh-plants and ma rooms, - 7-12 (second row): calyces
with circular horizontal section, adorned with palm-twigs and other foliage, - 13 (beginning of third row, to the right), Guy: Calyx with foliage, - 13. Smooth calyxmapital, in circular horizontal section, adorned with palm-twigs amongst which appear a lavish
profusion of all kinds of fruit, as - gum md dues. 19, so (two
first to the right, at the rear wall: Calyxueapitals, with marsh-plants. « 21-23: Calyces at the base of w ich are fruits in flat work, intern ted

by leaves, towards the top, a network of slender lent-fronds. "24: a
base of the capital is formed of luxuriant vegete Its for pin exaggerated








