to Edfu. ESNEH. 22. Route. 235

lavishness, the stems of which, of considerable thickness, surround the
top of the shaft. The leaves lying against the upper part of the calyx are
of an exaggerated coarseness.

In connection with the whole of which they form a part, these
capitals produce an impression of great richness; while regarded
separately they may be taken as specimens of the recess period in
Egyptian art, it the phrase may be permitted. m The Ornament on
the front and back walls is sunk into the wall ('relief en creux');
the side-walls and columns were on the other hand adorned with
has-reliefs. - The Ceiling is occupied with a-rich profusion of
astronomical representations.

The small Comic Church in the town contains little of interest.

As in most Jacobite churches, the Nave is divided into two parts by
three arches. Behind the wooden screens, which are tastefully inlaid with
ivory and mother-of-pearl, lieu the sanctuary, in four parts. The figures
of the saints are poor and comparatively modern. They represent St. George
and the dragon, St. Michael, the Madonna and Child, and an Ascension.

The Palace of the Khedive { Ken Efendinah), built by Mohammed
rAll, lies near the Nile, to the N. of the town. The buildings, inn
eluding a handsome rotunda, are much neglected, but the gardens,
with their profusion of roses, lemon-trees, and orange-tree, are
very attractive. The gardener, who usually presents the visitor with
a nosegay, expects a small gratuity (about 4 piastres).

The Quay on the right bank of the Nile, near the Mndiriyeh,
also contains some fragmentary inscriptions of the Roman imperial epoch.

a. Temple, which formerly stood about 21/4 M. to the N. of Beach,
is now represented only by a few fragments of columns, which bear the
name of one of the emperors; and with it have disappeared also the
beautiful radius and the lists of peoples, among which Macedonians and
Persians were mentioned. This temple too was dedicated to Rheum .--- Another temple, dating from the later Ptolemies, stood on the W. bank opposite
Esneh (Contra Latopolis); but this was demolished before use and has
left not a trace behind.

Numerous memorials of an early Christian civilization are still to be
traced in the convent in Egypt and which was certainly founded at a very early date,
possibly by the Empress Helena. The route thence from the town follows
at first an embankment towards the 3., and then strikes "to the W.
across the flew, The Consent Library still contains numerous Coptic liturgical writings, some of them lying on the floor in a locked room. A
visit to the now abandoned convent, the key of which is kept by one of
the fellahin, is not without interest, for the sake both of the curious use.
and of the ancient paintings and Coptic inscriptions. A cruel persecution
of the Christians is said to have taken place at Eeneh under Diocletian
at the beginning of the tth mam mat the convent is said to have been
founded in honour of the martyrs who suffered here. According to other
accounts the Christians expelled from Medinet Habu by the Arabs were
massacred here.

About 71/211. to the NEW. of Eamon, on the road to ex-Khargeh o,
M8), lies the large ruined Consent of Pnchomius, with numerous elegant
mausolea.

Esneh is sometimes selected as a starting-point for journeys to the
W. oases of Detect and Khdrgsh; see R. M.

El-Ken'am, 131/2 M. to the S. of Reach on the W. bank, where
there are ancient river-embankments, is perhaps the opulent Khme


