236 Route 22. Ella-RAB. From imam

bis. On the W. bank stretches a broad and fertile plain, on the
E. is the finely shaped Gebet Shcromh. At ci-Hawi, on the E. bank,
appears the first sandstone.

On the W. bank, about% hr. farther to the s, is the pyramid of
el-Kulah, which now presents the aspect of a step-pyramid, owing to the
decay of the filling-in material. The entrance was on the W. side. In
spite of its ruinous condition it is still about so it. high, while its base
occupies an area about 55 ft. square. Maspero recently carried on em »
various here, which injured the building without yielding any important
result. As there are no inscriptions it is difficult to determine the date
of its construction.

18 M. ELK"), on the E. bank, the ancient Eileithyia .--The
station of the four week steamers (from 9 am. to 2 pas) and of
the mail-steamer is at Bopdliych, properly cs--nSutéhiych.

An old felldh appears to prefer his services as soon as a dhahahiyeh lands. He is wail-informed and provides donkeys, though with very
poor saddle-cloths.

Halfwauday suffices for a flying visit to the following: i. the
"Ruins of the ancient town; 2. the Rock Inscriptions; 3. the "Chapel
of Amenhotep 111.; 4. the Rock Tammi of the Ptolemies; and 5. the
*Tombs. If so much time cannot be spared, the last should at least
be visited. The various monuments may be visited in the above
order as follows We skirt the boundary wall of the ancient town,
which is distinctly visible, then turn to the E. to (% hr.) an isolated
hill, rising from the plain, on the right side of which are most of the
rock-inscriptions, At the end of this valley we turn a little to the
left to reach the chapel of Amenhotep 111., with four columns in
the interior. We here turn round, and following the S. wall of the
more northerly chain of hills, reach the steps which lead to the
rocketemple. We may then visit the small temple of Thumb (called
by the Arabs el-dvr-tiF,'the bath'), or proceed to the tombs,
about i M. from the river.

The now vanished town of chent was called by the Greeks
Eitcithyia or Lcucothcd (Pliny), and in the inscription the Fortress

5 3
Reboot 1 }, often with the surname of "F'the white town".

The interpretation of the name of the city and e, goddess as chhsb
and Satan is probably wrong. The'vami WALL is in excellent
preservation, and encloses a square the sides of which are 700 yde.
long, with a total circumference of 2800 yds. The wall itself is of
immense thickness, 37 ft. or as wide as a considerable street, and
is built of huge sun- « dried Nileabricks. The savants of the French
Expedition estimated that the ancient town accommodated 10,000
inhabitants. Visitors should not omit to mount the broad ascent to
the top of the wall on the W. side, from which a good survey of the
tombs on the N. hill-chain is also obtained. Apparently only the
temples and public buildings, the'inner city', stood within the walls,
while various suburbs stretched beyond them; though in times of
danger the entire population found refuge within the ramparts. The





