to Edits. 351.49%. 22. Route. 237

temple was destroyed only a few months before Champollion's arurival at than in 1829, and only a few scanty traces of it (a basin,
some faint hieroglyphics, etc.) are now left. The sanctuary, which
stood within the wall, was dedicated to Sebek and Hebent and
existed even under the iSth Dynasty. Champollion saw here the
cartouches of Tutmee IL, Remake, Amenhotep 111., two scenes in
which Ramses 11. did homage to Sebek and Hebent, and Hakoris
and Nectanebus I. from later times. The town itself was founded at
a much earlier date, and in fact is, as we shall see, one of the very
oldest in Egypt. It existed even under the ancient empire. During
the period of the Hyksos it was scarcely less conspicuously than
Thebes the residence of the legitimate Pharaohs who had been driven
towards the S. The most important monuments for the history of
the freeing of Egypt from the foreign domination are to be found
here.

Recs Insonmons. - The route leads due E. from the Til, gateway in the girdle-wall, and crosses the dastingly white sand, past
a small ruined Temple close to the wall. In rather more than 1/2 hr.
we reach the small temple of Thoth, known to the Arabs as eta
Hommdm (p. 239). We keep straight on, leaving the larger temple
of the Ptolemiee on the left, and soon reach two Rocks projecting
from the plain, at the point where the road turns N. towards the
desert, halfway between elalflammém and the E. temple of Amenhotep III. Both rocks been numerous inscriptions, most of which
use the hieratic contractions. The royal names of Pepi and Teta
refer these to the 6th Dynasty. The inscriptions are chiefly names
of priests and their sons, who probably selected this spot for the
consummation of the sacrifices to the after-world. At all events there

are but few representations of offerings to the local goddess U

Bt9yisnArdleithyia. There are also some brief prayers. On the
S.W. side of the larger rock is a very interesting Figure of am Ancient King, with bare head, above which hovers the disc with the
Urmusnserpent.

The small temple or Charm. or Annuncm HI. lies fully 1/4 hr.
to the E. It may be reached direct in about an hour from the Nile,
though the shadeless route, especially at midday, is somewhat fatiguing. The little temple which is nearly 50 it. deep is of considerable interest from the artistic forms which it displays. The small
Celia (221/3 by If) te) stands upon a paved platform, which was at
one time surrounded by a wall of freestone. The gateway still
stands, and was formerly connected with the sanctuary proper by a
passage, at the sides of which stood smooth columns with canal
capitals.

_ The 131153103 of the cells forms a. single octagonal chamber, the roof
of which is supported by four sixteen-aided columns. An attempt was

made, as we have already nmed m. Dh, to continue this column-,
form of the ancient monarchy, along with the pleet' d - "ends of the









