238 Route 22. some. From Theses

architecture of the new monarchy; and we here see, in place of the capital next the central passage the mask of the goddess Esther, with her
cows' ears and head-dress. The front of a small portable temple with
handles, which rested on the head of the goddess, was placed on the abacus, and upon this rested the architrave. The mask of Hathor here appears only on one side of the capital; at Dér el-bahri it appears on two
sides. This artistic form was afterwards abandoned, but was again rec
sired by Nekhtneb-vf (Noctanebus II.), a rival king to the Persians, belonging to the 30th Dym, who loved to compare himself to the expellers
of the Hyksos, and who therefore reverted to the art-forma introduced by
them. Finally under the Ptolemies this form was developed into a capital
in the mum sense of the term. The masks are here united with tho
plinth: by means of a vertical Ornamental Stripe, covering two of the
sides of the olygonal shafts and adorned with inscriptions. As each of
the sixteen sides or faces of the columns measures 5 inches in breadth,
the stripe is 10 inches in breadth. - On the walls at the height of the
architraves, beneath the roof, appear other Esther masks, alternating
with the names of the royal builders. dmsaholep HI. dedicated to his
father Twister IV. the chapel of the goddess Hebert, who here appears heside AmmonuRa in place of Math. Both hieroglyphics and pictures retain the freshness of their colours. The former represent the making of
offerings. On the side with the door appear two lions, like door-keepers,
beside Incubation; of later travellers in demotic characters.
On the Facade of this chapel, Kilometres, chief-priest of Fish





P', and Ramses We favourite son, whose mummy was

found in the Serspenm at Memphis, has commemorated himself. He came
hither in the Met year of his father's reign, to attend the fifth great
festival held in honour of Reheat. On one run doorman Sen f, Another Inscription in clear hieroglyphics must be mentioned here. It is
certainly the latest found in Egypt, and was dedicated to Hebent,'in the
13:); year of his majesty, me of both worlds "Nameless III

GHQ'27......... ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ ............ .........

It was engraved in the rock by a celebrated young French Egyptologist,
whose name we suppress.

At this chapel we turn, direct our steps towards the Nils, and in
1/4 hr. reach the ROCK TEMPLE, on the right side of the valley, recognizable from a distance by the Stair leading up to its The latter
consists of 41 steps hewn in the rock, with a massive balustrade
on each side. The temple was constructed under Ptolemy IX,
Euergetes II. (Physkon), and subsequently provided with new inscriptions by Ptolemy X. Soter H. The site was regarded as holy
even before the building was erected, as we are informed by an inscription of the reign of Ramses VL, cut in the rock on the E. side
of the door leading into the mountain.

. The Rest Chamber has a vaulted ceiling covered with stucco, and,
being the sanctuary of the temple, was constructed earlier than the preceding chambers to which the stair leads. The letter form two pit".
On reaching the top of the stair, we pass through a doorway to a ForeCourt, not quite 33 ft. wide, the exterior sides of which were bounded by
low walls built between columns. Two rows of columns in the centre led
.to.uo dum- "a smaller he" (only 19 ft. wide) of curious construction,
being bounded on the right and left by four low walls, of which each
was built in between a pillar and a column. The door leading to the

rock-chamber opened at the back of this hall. This sanctuar also was
especially dedicated to Hebenh










