to new. snails. 22. Route. 239

The SMALL TEMPLE below, farther to the S.W. in the valley, is
in good preservation, but it is only 16 ft. high and 27 it cl-Ijummdm, he. the Bath.

As the wall! am about 3 ft. thick the Interior is very small. On the
left and back wall: is a small window, at some height from the ground.
Thoth, Reboot, and. Horns, the gods here worshipped, are represented as
forming a triad. In the doorway is the Pharaoh od'ering sacrifice below;
and a cynocephalus with the moon--sickle and disc on his head, above.
It was to be expected that the sacred animals that symbolize the qualities
of Shim should be found represented here along with the moon-goddess
Ho en.

*Roox-Tomas. A donkey is not necessary for a visit to these.

They are reached in about 1/4 hr. from the usual landing-place of
the Nile boats; and the last few minutes' climb up the hill-slope
on which the tombs His, must be accomplished on foot. The

Shafts, found both outside and inside the tombs, require caution.

These Tombs, hewn aide by side by side in the rock, are, like all the monuments at el--de, of small dimensions, but their distinct pictures of my
aim Egyptian domestic life will interest even those travellers who have
already seen the tombs of Benihasan and'Abd cl-ISLu-nah. One of the
Inscription: (in the tomb of the ship-captain Aahmes, see p. 241) is of the
greatest scientific importance, partly on account of the contemporary
narrative of the expulsion of the Hyhsos which it contains, partly on
account of the simple and intelligible style in which it is expressed. It
has been critically translated and analysed (by E. de Rouge) as the first
of all the lugs: inscriptions. - Most of the tombs were constructed before, during, or shortly after the rule of the Hyksos, for male and female
members of noble families, who discharged the peaceful duties of chief
priests of Hebent or of tutors and nurses to the royal princes. There
are 31 tombs in all, but only 13 have inscriptions and only 6 repay a visit.

We first enter the third inscribed tomb, counting from the E,
which is consicuous by its wide Opening. This belonged to the

overseer ("" 4), of were, the scribe (5.8. savant) Pillar-i



[ "if? i

O
Aahmes, son of Am, whose tomb lies farther to the left (WO, It is
distinguished by a series of representations from the life and burial

of the deceased, on both sides of the tomb.

To the left (W.) of the entrance appears the deceased with his stall
of office in his right hand and a long stick in his left; behind him stand
three servants. The accompanying inscription is:'The inspection of the
labours of all seasons of the year, which take place in the news. by the
overseer of Hebent (cl-liab) by the manager of suit (EsnehT. - The, Labour's of the Field are next represented in three registers, beginning from
beneath la elm lowest row: a can drawn by two horses, showing that
horses were used by the Egyptians as early as the beginning of the 18th
Dyna, tilling the ground with hoe and plough, ploughing and sowing. .-.W.
Middle row: Reaping tha grain being out not close to the ground but
one-third or one-half way up the stalk; vessels with refreshments for
the workers are represented, and kept cool by a screen; binding the
sheaves; reaping or pressing the fruits of the earth. - Top row: Em of
corn carried away in baskets; threshing by means of oxen; piling up the
fruits of the earth; packing them in sacks of storing them an granarres.
Above the oxen treading out the corn is the following song, inscribed
also in the tombs of Benihasan (p. 12) and "t1ptrsha.








