A

240 Route 22, EU.drAB. From Thebes

Thrash for yourselves,

Thrash for yourselves,

Once thrash

For yourselves. Thrash

For yourselves. The straw
Remains for you to eat.

The grain is for your mane".

Do not let wears »

Nose steal over your heart. There is abundance to drink!

In the series below these, Pihm-i is seen with a bank in which he is
writing, before him a large writing apparatus The accompanying inscription is,'Recording the number of cattle by the overseer of air, the mun
(Aphroditopolis,
p. 231) to ermEi'ib.' -.l- Then follow cattle 0 various kinds, calves, oxen,
asses; several of these being prepared for the table or for sacrifice; a fireplace. Next appears Pihari, seated and inspecting the weighing and shipping of gold which is mostly made into rings. Farther to the right, the
catching and pro arin of fish and also of poultry, Pihari standing and
looking on. ~--A ova ikari bears on his lap the young prince Uasmes,
second son of king Aahmes (1680 BE.) whose nurse (he. tutor) he is
named. I'thri with his wife At retail, in a bower, receiving fruit.
Grapes are being gathered, and trodden out in a wine-press by nude
figures, holding cords as they work.

The remaining paintings illustrate the Burial of Pihari, whose coffin
is drawn upon a sledge. On the right well Pihari and his wife receive
an offering made by their son smoother, who is clad in a leopard'suskin.
Beneath the chair is a cynocephalus. Behind Amonmes the mourning
friends are seated in two divisions. At the head of each division is a
seated married couple, and then two row. of relatives, father, mother,
grandfather, grandmother brothers, sinus and aunts; above is the shipmaster dahmes, son of Abna with his wife; below is Atefisro the nurse
of King Uazmes, and at the foot, female musicians and a female harper.

Of the tombs to the right that of thmes surnamed Pen hcbcn or
Pen when is noteworthy, not only because two stones from the base
of a statue with historical inscriptions (new in the Louvre) were
found here and because a statue of Aahmes was discovered in 1883 in
the ruins of Syl-kits, but also because the services rendered by the
deceased to the kings of the 18th Dye. and the rewards he received
are recorded on the right and left of the entrance, as well as on the
stones above-mentioned. The kings mentioned are Aahmes, Amenhotep L, Tattoos 1., 11., and 111., and Queen us, with her son
and daughter. See Lepsius'e Denkrnaler 111, $ 6.

From these inscriptions we learn that Am. aummed Pan Mime,
followed the kings of the 181. }: Dyn. from Aabznes to Tutrncs 111. on their
various campaigns to Zahi, Rush, Kahuna, and against the Sheen, and

that he captured men, horses, and chariots, for which he received rich
gifts In thistoinb is also commemorated the royal prince Wiretap, our
$ 330

and greatvgrandfatheralso held the same dignity. Probably this Amenhotep reposed also in this tomb.

To the left of the tomb of Pihuri, which we inspected first, is
that of Seton, whose daughter's husband Rooters Name in a leopard'a
shin brings to him the shortage of the high-priests. A crowd of
relatives, including Hui, another son-in-law, is also represented.
In this tomb mention is made of the ith year of a kingfiauneferka...,



