to Elm. EL-KAB. 22. Route. 241

whose name also occurs with Aahmes', Binpu, and a king Season
on the pedestal of a statuette of Harpocrates, now in the museum
at Giseh. Those, with the exception, of course, of Amines, were
probably provincial or local kings. Above some ships in the left
part of the tomb a festival of Ramses Ill. is mentioned, probably a
later addition. According to Maspero this tomb dates from the
20th Dynasty.

Farther to the left lies the tomb of defiance, Chief of the Sailors,
the son of More and her husband Babe, who was the maternal
grandfather of Pihari. The Funereal Inscription is served in the
rock instead of being painted on stucco, a fact which lends great
importance to this tomb.

The inscription covers nearly the whole wall to the right, as we
enter, aiming it with the figure of the deceased. Aahmes appears with
dips his wife, seated in a chair beneath which cowers a pet monkey;
before them stand their daughter's son Pihari, who caused this tomb to
he adorned for his gallant grandfather. Beneath is another Pillar, offering
sacrifice to his father Harari and his wife, and beneath him again are
three sons, including yet another Khan. Beside the door to the sidechamber is another dedication to Aahmes, the chief of the sailors, from
his grandson Pihari (p. 239), to keep his memory green in this spot. The
biography of Aahmes thus begins:'Aahmes (Amasis), commander of the
sailors, son of the late Alina, a can: I speak to you, all ye people. Learn
the marks of honour which all to my share; for I was distinguished
seven times with the golden necklace, in the presence of the whole country... Male and female slaves were my own (the names of the slaves
presented to Aahmes are inscribed on the outside of the tomb), and I
received many fields. The name of a great hero which he (the speaker)
won for himself, will nevermore be obscured in this land. He speaks:
I was born in the town of Hehent (Eileithyiar, my father was a colonel
under the late king Rasekenen (Vol. 1., p. 9), and was named Babe, son
of Roam; then 1 sawed in his stead as captain on board the ship'The
Young On", in the reign of Ra-neb-pehti (is, Aahmes 1.). I was young
and unmarried and slept on the couch of the Rheunu (perhaps those ex.eluded from the dwelling of the married, he. bachelors). But after I had
founded a household (taken a wife), I meek myself to fight in the N.
fleet. Then I followed the king on foot, when he mounted his warchariot. When the fortress of Ha-war (Altoids, a stronghold of the Hyksos,
Vol. L, p. 89) was besieged, I had to fight on foot before the king. Then
I was appointed to the ship'Kha em hennefer" (Ascent in Memphis); we
fought in the arm of the river at Abel-is and I acquired booty and won
a. bum (of a hand (of a slaughtered enemy). This was reported to the officer of the
king, and I received the golden necklace for velour. Another contest took
place on the same spot and I was again awarded the golden necklace for
valour'. Aahmes was decorated a third time at Takemi, to the S. of the
fortress.'Abaris was taken and I captured there in all 4 persons, amen
and 3 women; His Bf'esty assigned them to me as slaves'. ~--The next
lines inform us that a tar the king had captured the fortress of the Hylo
see and overcome the nomadic tribes, he carried on war with the tribes
of the S., in which Aahmes took part and won fresh laurels. Bu saved
mo under Amenhotep I. and Tutmes L Under the lastwnamed prince the
Egyptian army penetrated far into Asia. The inscription goes on:'Thereupon his majesty set out for Syria (Ram), in order to reduce the peoples
to his good pleasure. He reached Mesopotamia (Naharina). His Majesty,
the living, sound, and strong one, met this wretched one (the prince of
Mesopotamia), and undertook the attack. The king wrought terrible butchery among them; and the prisoners taken alive by His Maiesty were
innumerable. I was present as colonel of my soldiers, and His Modesty
praised my bravery. I captured a war-chariot, with" lithograph him

BABE'EKER'S Upper Egypt, _








