242 Route 22. music.

who stood in it; I led them as living captives to His Majesty, and once
more was awarded the golden necklace. I have become great, I have
reached old age... I shall rest in the vault, which I have prepared
for myself. _

The tomb of Ream, still farther to the left (W.), contains
numerous representations of interest. The deceased, a son of a lady
named Aahmes and father of another Aahmes, was a prince (erpa
ha) and a large landed proprietor. Two obelisks seem to have stood
at the entrance to this vault, and the statue of the deceased is to
be seen in its recess.

The roof of the chapel is vaulted, and covered like the walls with a
thin coat of stucco, on which the representations and inscriptions were
painted. 0n the right well are the funeral of Ronni and other scenes
connected with his death, while on the left wall are scenes from the life
of the deceased, who accompanied by his dog, surveys his possessions.
Here appear his carriage, his serfs busted in tilling the ground, and his
family in friendly union. Beside each of me persona waited on by the
servants of the deceased appears his name and his relationshi to the
head of the family. Among the livestock belonging to Renni 1 swine
are mentioned, a circumstance which appears somewhat surprising at
first, for the flesh of swine was an article of diet as strictly forbidden
to the Egyptians as to the Jews. Ronni, however, was a prophet of
Reboot, and had to provide swine to be sacrificed to this goddess, which
accounts for his possession of the otherwise abhorred animals. This remarkable circumstance did not escape the notice of Herodotus, who
writes:'They sacrifice swine to no god: excel." Selene (goddess of the
moon, he. Reboot) and Dionysus; making this sacrifice to the moon always at full moon, at which time they also eat swine's flegh, TheEgyptiana assign a particular reason for abhorring swine at other mum;
and offering them at this one, but although I know it I am not permitted
to reveal it'. Herodotus was bound by an oath not to reveal the mystery,
from which, however, we may be able to lift the veil by a study of the
monuments. It is related that Typhon (Seth), while hunting by moonlight,
fell in with the coffin of Osiris, and barred the corpse into it. parts, is.
the id nights of the waxing and waning moon. This orb is called the
left eye of Horns, and, as the inscriptions explain, it was in jeopardy
on the 15th night, Lev the time of the full moon. It had been observed
that eclipses of the moon affected the light only of the full moon, and
thus arose the myth that Seth Typhon, in the form of a swine, attacks
the orb of night at the full moon and endeavours to swallow it. The
desire of injuring the enemy of the moon and of assisting the latter in
her contest against the animal that seeks to devour her, finds symbolise!
expression in the slaughter of swine at the time of the new moon. Many
other Egyptian customs are also to be explained by reference to the
contest betwixt Horns and Seth.

The last three tombs farther to the left (WJ appear to date from
the 13th Dym, and are therefore much more ancient than those
just described, unless we regard the ids-17th Dyn. as ruling in
Upper Egypt contemporaneously with the Hyksos in Lower Egypt.
The first was erected to a lady named Sebeknefru, by her father

Bebe, who possibly himself is buried here too. Sebeknefru was
an eaten am, as. belonging to the king's court.

Brugsch has published the contents of a State from the renewal! of
this tomb, in which Bebe. records the great also of his household, and
also his distribution of grain during a long--continued famine. To (mgr
nits in this, however, a reference to the famine that brought Joseph's
brethren m Emu, is entirely gratuitous. In the last tomb t the left,






