EDFU. 7 23. Route. 243

belonging to the prince Sshslki there occurs an actual mention of a king

........ __
of the 13th Dyan, via (0% p 5

The tomb between the two lm-memme elongs to a lady named swam,
perhaps a wife of Bebe.

On the W. bank opposite el-th, on a hill about 3 M. from the Nile,
are the partly destroyed rock-tombs of mm ol-umu mm mm, dating
from the time of Tuhues L Landing at Ghentowiych, we precede thence
due E. through the field viii (20 min.) Marital. In 20 min. more we mob
mm ttheyy; 0n the site of the ancient town (mentioned by smug ot
Hievmcn m (City of hawks"), Egypt. Knockers, with the town Nathan 9

.'\



Recommends-tots?.

or. The three hawks are Horus, Tuamutef, and Kebseuuf. A

hawk is also named in he hunks an! a. local god. The name of Usertesen was not found on the heaps of rubbish in 18% by Professor Eisenlohr. - About 1/; M. farther to the E. begins the desert, and 1/4 hi.
farther is the ancient Roman fort of Sefian, on which large vultures frequently perch. In 20 min. more we begin to mount the hill with the
tombs. There are altogether eight tombs, of which only the first to the
right (we and the first to the left (Hos-enter, chief priest of Hieraconpolis)
repay a visit. The former contains a well--preserved stole of the time
of Tutmes 1.; outside the latter, to the rim dancing-girls were painted.
Not long ago three black granite statues were found here, with the names
of Kings Pepi (am Dym), Ra-kha-kheper (Usertesen 11.), and Ra-eu-mat
(Amenemm ITL, um Dyno. These are now in the museum at Gizeh.
131/2 M. from tsl-Eta is Edfa, on the W. bank.

23. Edfu.

Edie is a steamboat-station. The Mail Steamers arriving on Tues and
ma. at 8.30 am. halt here for w; m g the Tourist Steamers spend a.
nigh: those on a
four-weeks tour visit it the next morning. Steamers do not stop here
on the downward voyage. The halt of the mail-steamers gives hardly
time even for a hasty visit to the temple, especially as the latter lies

min. from the landing place.

Those who travel in their own dhahahiyeh should spend two days at
Edie, bringing their provisions from the boat to the temple. Egyptologists,
who may find material to occupy them here for days and weeks, will obtain,
if necessary, poor lodging and scanty fare in the Post Home, 3/4 E. to the
E. of the temple. Insect-powder should in this case not be forgotten;
and wine and preserved meat should he brought from Luxor.

Donkeys and horses are to be had at the Landingupiace. Camels may
also he obtained. Riders unaccustomed. to the latter animals must be
careful not to fall forward when the camel kneels down.

The way to the temple leads almost due W. from the landing-place, then, turning to the N. (right), skirts the Canal of PAN and
crosses it by a good new bridge. It then proceeds to the W. through
several streets and finally turns N. again for a short distance .-Another route leads straight on from the landing-place, bends to
the right through fields, and than traverses the streets of the town
without crossing the canal.

A flight of steps descends to the massive Pylon: of the temple
(p. 249). As at Beach (p. 232) the accumulated ruééhhi h f en







