244 Route 23. EDFU. Horus
taries bus heaped itself around the temple; and later dwellings
have been erected on the top of earlier ones. This alone can explain
how the temple is now at a much lower level than the surrounding
village.

The building presented a very different appearance only thirty years
ago. Arab houses stood upon the temple itself and were built against
its walls. The interior was filled with rubbish almost up to the capitals
of the columns, and the outside was equally deeply buried. A picture of
the edifice as it then was may be seen in pine: M) and 55 in the first
volume of the Antiquités in the Description de I'Egypte. In the beginning
of the sixties, however, the entire temple was laid here by mariette under
the auspices of the Khedive, and the buildings clustering upon and around
it were removed. Now the temple of FAN is seen in wonderful, almost
perfect preservation, exceeding that of any other Egyptian temple or even
of any antique building in the world, in spite of tha 2.00 yam that
have passed over it. From top to bottom it is covered with representations and remarkableinscriptions, the interpretation of which was
reserved for the present century, so rich in" discoveries of every kind.

The "Temple of Edfu is superior to the temple at Denderah in
the much greater distinctness of its sculptured reliefs and inscriptions, due probably to the use of better sandstone than that of
Denderah which contains more lime. It is also much more complete,
for in addition to chambers corresponding to those found at Don-dot-ah, there are at Edfu a passage running round the temple and
a lofty wall enclosing the latter, besides a spacious threw-court and
two massive pylons. (Comp. the accompanying Plan with that of
Denderah at p. 80.)

The inscriptions in the temple at Edfu have been ublished in
Diimiehen's Aliiitryptisclur Tempeh'nschriften (113 pining; 18 7), the geographical inscriptions in his Recast! do monuments égyptiens and in J. de
Rouge's Edfa, from notes by his father E. de Rouge (1830 }. The me
named work, however, has many errors. The important Builder's" Inuscrtptions are to be found in the Aoypttcche Zettschrtfl for 187041-7345,
and in Brugsch's Kalenderinschrnflcn (Thesaurus 11.). Mons. Harm: of
Geneva has published the text of the battles of Home at Edfu, and um
tius me first three of the field-texts.

The modern Arabic name of the village of Edfu is derived from

the Ceptic author, formed in its turn from the old-Egyptian

of the second district of Upper Egypt. This district, named Tee » Hor, ale. the district of the raising of Horus, t the Apoltinopolitcs
of Greek coins, was bounded on the S. by the Names Nubia, the
capital of which was Etcphontinc, and on the N. by Lotopoiitcs,
the capital of which was Sent, the modern Esncb. In the great war
of the gods waged by Ra-Helios and his companions against the
evil Seth-Typhon and his allied demons, the principal champion is
the great Horus-Apollo, who destroys the enemies of--Ra. The
scene of the first meeting of the hostile gods, of their first great

&
Tobin the name given in the inscriptions to the metropolis



wu
t-'Bepause the goddess Isis has raised (tea) her Home in the town
of the raising (tea), its chief name has become town of the raising of
Horus (tea-her)' .--- From an inscription on the N. girdle?,








