Temple. EDFU.. 23. Route. 245

battle, is traditionally laid in the name of Apcliinopolis. An inscription relating to the Home myth, on the inside of the W.
girdle-wall, states that'they reached Seth-Typhon and his companions in the name of Apollinopolis'.

Horns emerged victorious from this battle, and the evil Sethu
Typhon was pierced by him (tabu).'Piercer thereupon became his
name, and'place of the piercing' the name of his district and town.
This name is clearly preserved in the modern name Eats, Another name, that occurs most frequently next to this one and has
also reference to the chief deity of the temple at Edfn, is Hot or
Rebut. Thus the winged sun-disc, which was placed over the en »
trance to every Egyptian temple, was named

625:1 [ 2'6'9 cal

Behut nuter a nob pe t ab en ti pro em khu.t

'Hut, the great god, the lord of heaven, who clad in bright plume
age, comes forth from the sun--mountain.

Another name for the winged sunmdiso is Apt, which means
'flying' and'wings'.

At the head of the gods worshipped at Edfu stood, as is apparent from what has already been said,'Horus, who spreads his
wings, the great god, the lord of heaven, who, clad in bright plumage, comes forth out of the sun-mountain'. Next to him rank the
Hathor of Denderah, who undertook a special festal journey to EMU,
AM, son of Rather, Osiris, Isis, Nephthys, She, and chnut.

History of the Temple. The representations and inscriptions
that cover the walls of the great temple of Home at Edfu place it
beyond doubt that the building in its present form dates from the
period of the Ptolemies. Yet like the sanctuary of Rather at Don-derah, it is not an architectonic creation of that period, but merely
a splendid restoration of an earlier temple carried out under the
Lagidae. The Temple proper, to. the sacred apartments exclusive of the later hypostyle with its 18 columns CPI, E) and of the
fore-court with its 32 columns (Pl. F), as well as of the still later
pylons and girdle-wall, was begun by Ptolemy HI. Eucrgctcr I. in
the 10th year of his reign. It was finished 9.3 years later, in the
28th year of the reign of Ptolemy 1X. Euergetes IL, and the 18th
Mesori in that year was fixed by the priests for its consecration,
as an important festival took place upon that day. The image of
Home was. carried in solemn procession into the temple, and the
author of the builders' inscriptions at Edfu, in describing this solemn entry, introduces the god as astonished by the magnificence
that greeted him, and moved by joy, as addressing his surroundings. In his speech the god expressly states that'the halls were
renewed in their building', and that'commands went forth from
their majesties to rebuild his house, an edifice of mole:'uses and









