246 Route M,' EDFU. Home
his sanctuary, which had been raised by their ancestors, and to
make it more magnificent than before'.

An inscription (on the outside of the E. girdle-wall) states that
this beautiful monument (the present temple) lay behind (is. probably to the S. of) the building of his father; another (on the inside of the some well) records that the foundation-stone was laid
in the time of Fish in the holy place of Tea Her for the God Ra;
and a third (on the inside of the N. girdle-wall) informs us (on the
left) that the building was carried out'as it was in the plan of the
great writing that fell from heaven to the N. of Memphis', and (on
the right) that'this great wall was built according to the book of
the arrangement of temples, written by the Kherhch Imhotcp, son of
the god Ptah'.

An inscription in one of the crypts at Denderah (Mariette Ill, 78) mentions 3 fast"! journey of limbo: from Deriderah (p. 80) to the temple of
Home at Edie. This festival, which was established try Tumxea IIL
(1600 3.0.) took place at the new moon of the month Epiphi.

The Nose, still to be found in the holy of holies (p. 252), bears
the name-rings of Nectanehns I. (378-360 13.0.) and probably
dates from the original temple. The document, inscribed on the
outside of the E. wall of the temple, relating to the gifts of lands,
mentions King Darius as well as Nectanebus I. and Nectanebus H.
as benefactors of the temple.

Two accounts of the building of the present temple have come
down to us. The shorter of these occurs on the outside of the W.
wall of the temple proper, in the second line of the lower marginal
inscription, dating from the time of Ptolemy IX. Euergetes IL;
the other, at greater detail, in the anew-dine lower Marginal Inscription, on the outside of the W. girdle-wall. In the second inn
scription we read as follow

"On this beautiful day of the opening of the building in the 10th year
(supplied from the shorter inscription), on the 7th Epiphi (the. Aug. w,
237 BA), in the time of King Ptolemy Ill. Eucrgetes I. It was a festival
of the Sixth, when the interior of the ground was opened, the first of all
the festivals of the Sixth of the ceremony of laying the foundation.

The king himself, along with the goddess 5.1mm, was engaged in fulw
filling the ceremony of laying the foundation of the adytum, the startingpoint for determining its halls. its side~chembers (were erected) in their
places, carefully arranged by the wise (maul The sacred architects built
with the lord of the papyrus-writing. The great hall of the temple was
finished, the sanctuary (meson) of the golden hawk was prepared, by the
10th year, on the m Epiphi, in the reign of King Ptolemy 1V. Hello-t
pater" (a date corresponding to Aug. 17, 5312 B.00. Thus 25 rain' 3.0.
m 212 3.0.) were spent in erecting the walls of the temple.

The decoration of the walls with hieroglyphics and reliefs and the
completion of the great gateway and of the ham
are noted as follows:

'The inscribing of its walls with well-executed sculpture of the
names, the great ones, of His Majesty, and with the figures of the gods and
goddesses, the dignified ones of the shining city (one of the many names
of Edie), and the finishing of its great door and of the two wing ] of the
door of its hall (lasted) till the 16th your ad His Majesty (The first year
of Ptolemy IV. was the 108111 of the Lagidae Tgr, 222 3.0., so that his
16th year corresponds to 207 3.0.) Then a resolution broke out, and it








