Temple. EDFU. 23. Route. 247

came to pass that the instigator of the rebels in the outlying lands had
his secret retreat from the city of the throne of the gods to the place
.... in the B. (One of the chambers of the temple, viz. Pl. v, V, was
called'city of the throne of the gods', but the phrase is here used to
describe the town of Earth) That ended (heir) in the year 79 in the reign
of the late King Ptolemy V. Epiphanes, after the king had suppressed the
revolution in the land; behold, his name is officially placed in it' (the
temple).

The inscription continues:'In the 5th year, 11% of the Shaftbet (is.
on the lot of the month Tybi) of his beloved son, the late King Ptolemy VII. Phllometor, were erected the great wooden door in the Hall of
the Strong Victor (one of the names of the temple of Edie), and the two
wings of the door of the Hal-hall (the name of Hall D, with the 12 calnmnah Similarly what had been made in work in the interior of the
Chamber of Victory (he. Room I, behind the adytum) in the 30th year
of this king was restored. The finishing of the hieroglyphics, carved
with the graving tool, the decoration of the walls with a covering of
gold, the Application at { he totem, the finishing of the top-ornament
of its wooden dam, the making of the door-stands of good brass, with
the metal hinges and locks, the lining of gold plates on the wings of its
doors, the finishing of the interior of the temple-proper with perfect work
by the best artists of the time __... these operations lasted until the 28th
year on the 18th day of the month Mesori, under the late King Ptolemy IX. Euer ates II. and his consort, the regent Cleopatra III. This makes
a period of 5 yam from the ceremony of the first hammer- « stroke to the
festal entry, the festival of the consecration of the ancestral abode by
His Majesty to his divine lord, Home of Edfn, god Am, the lord of
heaven, which is the great festival of Tekhn, and hate been equalled by
nothing since the creation of the world to the present day'.

The dates iven above as to the progress of the work are as follows t L flat T hi, th year of Ptol. VII. Philom. C',2, T. 3rd Feb. 176 BAh
2. The th year of the same king 3 152451 3.0..
3. 18th Mesori, 28th year of Ho). IX. Energ. 3 10th he t. 142 3.0.
Finally from the foundation-festival on 23rd Aug. 7 3.0. to the
foetal entry on 10th Sept. 142 3.0. is a period of 95 years.

The inscription next devotes some space to the description of the
festival of the solemn entry of the god, and then goes on: In this beautiful 30th year, month Payni, 9th day, festival of the union of the moongod Osiris with the sen-god Ra, again the festival of a 6th of Payni, the
foundation was laid of the Khan! Hall (Pl. E, the iB-colnmned hymstyleh
which has two side-chapels within it (referring probably to t t emu
chamber: to the right and left of the portal, in the front wall), and the
roof of the sun-god who commands in heaven was completed in the,
Mas year, month Mesori, 18th day (to. Sept. 5, 122 3.0.), which is 16 years,
2 months, IO days from the foundation of the hall of the sun-mountain
(another name for Hall E), which was laid on the 9th Payni in the
30th year of Ptolemy IX. (is. July 2, 140 B.C.). Thus from the founding
of the hall to the completion of the roof there elapsed, as the inscription
correctly states, a space of 17 years, 2 months, iO days, reckoning to the
dedicatory festival of the noble Khant hall, which took place on the day
of the Telthu festival.

Fifteen definite dates are given in this important inscription mailing
the history of the temple of Edfn beginning with the foundation-ceremony on the 7th Epiphi in the { on year of Ptolemy 111. (23rd Aug,
237 3.0.), and ending with the year of Ptolemy X. Soter 1183 second
assumption of the government, with the 238th year ofthe Lagidae: 59:88
wo, To these we may add a sixteenth, dating the final completion of
the huge building. From an inscription given thrice inside the portal of
the pylons and the colonnade of the fore-court, we learn that the two
brass-mounted win s of the door of the great ylons were erected on the
fist Khoiak in the 5th year of Ptolemy XIII. glans Dionysus, and of his
sister and wife Cleopatra Tryphmna, he. on December 5th, 57 B _ Thus
















