248 Route 23 EDFU. Home
the complete rebuilding of the temple at Edfu was accomplished within
the period of 180 years, 3 months, and "days.

As a kind of pendant or companion-piece to this long historical"
inscription of the W. girdle-wall, there appears another no less inn
teresting Inscription at the foot of the E. Girdle Walt CPI, k). This
second inscription, which has a total length of 240 ancient Egyptian
ells, contains a summary account of the whole temple, followed by
a detailed description of each of its rooms. Like all dedicatory inscriptions of the kind, it begins with the name of the monarch
under whom the monument it refers to (in the present case, the
girdle-wall) was completed.

The inscription begins as follows:'The golden Horns, who shows
himself in heaven as the wing-spreading god of Edfu, clad in bright
plumage, he has taken possession of his abode... prepared by... Ptolemy XI. Alexander L'

'This beautiful large wall, behind his temple at the side of his father's
building, its length NO 6115, its breadth 90 cite, in height to the summit
20, the thickness of its foundation bells. This monument, which was
erected by His Majesty and his father, is formed like the son-mountain
of heaven.' These dimensions correspond with measurements made by
the writer. The length of the girdle-wall to the pylons was found to be
4141/2 it, which reckoning the ancient Egyptian ell at 13/4 ft., is equal m
240." ens; breadth 1333/4 it. 2: 89.12 oils; height 331/2 ft. m 19.5 ells; thick.
neu Watt., to. not quite, (instead of F) 6113.

vWe maynow bestow a glance on the general arrangement of the
temple as a whole. The main axis lies W. and 8., as is repeatedly
mentioned in the inscriptions referring to this point

"I'I'f: 25; .
=1 33-; O m,'i'rom Orion (the S. star) to the Great
a

Bear (the N. Constellation )'. The early Egyptian architects seem to
have been guided by these two constellations in determining the
orientation of any new temple, as appears to be indicated with some
certainty by inscriptions at Edfu. The laying of the foundatioun
stone of an early Egyptian temple was a ceremony of peculiar solemn
nity, in which the king himself, as has been observed in the account of Benders ]; o. 88), took part; and even in the case of
temples built at a time when the rulers of Egypt had ceased to
share personally in these ceremonies as 2,9. under the Roman emu
perors who did not live in Egypt at all, the inscriptions still sometimes speak in the old-fashioned style as though the monarch had
duly performed his part. An inscription along the foot of the wall
in Hall D states that'His Majesty in his proper person, with his
hand on the wooden peg and holding the line in his grasp, along
with the goddess Saiekh, is to be found beside his mtsssurirtinstrumem to determine the four corners of the temple at INN'. This
N. and S. axis divides the entire building into a right and a left
(or W. and it.) half, reckoned from Room I (p. 252), which occupies
the exact centre of the rear-wall of the temple, and is named in
the inscriptions'divider of the middle". All the walls and rooms
to the right of this right of thin line (as we look S.) are described in the inscrip




