Temple. EDFU. 23. Route. 249

tions as lying on the right or W. side, and all to the left as lying
on the left or E. side.

The "loan-Portal (Pl. G) forms a worthy introduction to the
temple, flanked on either side by a tower with sloping walls, about

100 ft. high This is usually named [ Em Mallet,



'portal-building','entrance-hall', in the inscriptions, a designation which is not unfrequently employed to include the entire
gatehouse and the two towers, though the most usual term for the

entire cntrance- structure was Belthm, to.
'tower','watch--tower'.

This passage was formerly closed with a massive door with two
wings. The entire lofty gatehouse is covered from top to bottom
and on all sides with reliefs and inscriptions, amongst which,
especially on the right and left, the colossal Figure of the King (Neos
Dionysus) is conspicuous, smiting his foes, whom he holds by the
hair, in presence of Horns and Esther. In two rows, above, the
king appears praying and offering sacrifices before the gods of Edfu.
m Below, on the left (WI) pylon, the king and queen conduct a
procession of representatives of the districts that yield gold, silver,
other metals, precious stones, cosmetics, em, and furnish them to
the temple. On the front of the pylon towers are four wide incisions,
two on each side of the central portal. These were intended to
support the huge copper--mounted wooden poles with gilded tips,
which are illustrated in Vol.1, p.168. One of the lower marginal
inscriptions states that these poles were intended at Edfu to avert
the storms of heaven, and that they were adorned with gay flags at
the top.

The pitch-dark lower Pylon Chambers on each side are entered
from the court by doors to the right and left of the portal, and from
each of them an easy Staircase of 242 steps in 14 flights ascends to
the Platforms of the towers. One of the towers should certainly be
ascended, in spite of the numerous steps. The view from the top
is unusually attractive, commanding not only the most imposing
survey of the templo'buildings, but also ranging over the surrounding country. The plain through which the Nile flows, with its
verdant crops and its villages fringed with palms and mimosas,
framed by the desert-mountains in the distance, presents a scene
of surprising beauty, especially when seen under the evening light
that renders the Egyptian landscape so wonderfully distinct.

The Force-Court (Ph F), which is bounded in front by the
pylons, at the back by the hypostyle hall (H. E), and on the right
and left by the great girdle-wall, is a spacious court, paved with
broad flags, and surrounded on its E., W., and S. sides with a COT-'
ered colonnade of 32 columns. The inscriptions eat it y iously






