250 Route 23. EDFU. Horus--
' Uscbht also or court of the offerings, neckht bhii on So-Hor or court
of the appearance of the protecting Horus, usebht m butchers or court
of the pylons, and uscbht on tcsnefru Ra-Khuti or court of the sacred
boat of the god of the sun-mountain, Ptolemy X. Sotcr H. is named
in the marginal inscriptions as the builder and finisher of this
court, in harmony with the great inscription on the W. girdle-wall.

The lower marginal inscription on Well a of the court says of this
king:'He has built the Court of the Appearance of the protecting Home
(usekht hire on Sa-Hor), the lord of the gods, as a copy of the building
of the sun-mountain with the god of the sunwmountain, completed in his
building in excellent work in good sandstone; offerings are made to his
divine image in it'. An inscription on the opposite wall (PL ls) says of
the same king, that he built the Court of Offerings (usehht utent)'in order
to sacrifice to the tsun-god thrice a day".

Detailed information is given in the inscriptions as to the size
of this fore-court, the height and thickness of its walls, the number
and shape of the columns, and the side-doors and main-portal. The
length is repeatedly given as 90 Egyptian 9115, the breadth as 80,
the height of the walls as 20, and their thickness as 5; measurements, which taking the an as 13/4 ft. correspond tolerably closely
with measurements made on the spot length 155 ft, breadth
138 m, height of wall 341/2 in, thickness V2 ft0. The number of
the'columns, the great ones, erected in it' is correctly given as 32;
their beauty and strength is extolled; and the capitals and shafts
minutely described. The doors are also described in order, details
being sometimes given as to whether may had one or two wings, of
what wood they were made, and whether they opened inwards or
outwards. Besides the four side-doors of the court and the main
portal between the pylons, the two doors leading from the court to
the gate-towers are also described, as well as the door (Pl. d) in
the N. half of the E. girdle-wall and another smaller door, nearer
the N. and of the same wall, leading to the Temple-Well.

The Back of this court, forms, as has already been remarked,
the front of the Temple Proper, which timers but slightly from the
temple of Denderah. Here, as at Denderah, the first chamber is a-----
Hypostyle Hall (Pl. E), open in front. The roof is borne by
18 columns, while at Denderah there are 21; and the two small
chapels in front have nothing corresponding to them at Denderah.

The chapel to the left as we enter is called 5;: Potato, he.'in-
censcmchambcr', and was used. by the monarch, in his capacity as
high-priest, when performing the ceremonies of purifying himself
on his entrance into the temple, with holy water and incense. The
small room on the right was called E":, Pa-ho- (i), to.
'room of the written rolls' and appears from the inscriptions to
have been used to contain all the written documents referring to
the temple-serviee:'many boxes with papyrusurolls (hompu) and
great leather-rolls (amnurunenumeschy. A very interesting Catalogue on the walls of this room gives the names of the book! pro







