Temple. EDFU. Ah Route. 251

served here. - A Eida-door [ PL o) in the E. wall of the hypostyle
admits to the open passage between the temple and the girdle-mail.

The Ceiling of this hall, which, like that at Denderah, is named
Khaki,'the front room' or float ur,'the great anteohamher', is
completely covered with astronomical representations.

To me mu m the left are the first six Hour: of Night, to the right the second
six (Champollion, Mon. 11. pp. 123 he o, Above the door to the following
Hall D is a curious representation. he dun Disc appears with the h re
of a crowned beetle ascending from the horizon into a boat guide by
Her mi and Ear lhent hhrud. Next the sun, on the left, is Thoth, on the
right Keith, and also Aphem (Anubis), Mat, and Halber. In an attitude
of worship, at the sides, are Four Senses; to the right the eye and ear
(to. sight and hearing) to the left taste (symbolized by a tongue) and
reason. At the top oi this wall is a long astronomical frieze. First
appear figures of the 36'Decani", at the end of which are the chief constellations of the 8. (Orion and the Satin } Cow or Sirius) and of the N.
(the hall's leg fettered by Ape), then come the Planets, the Slate with the
Fourteen Steps of the waning moon, the gods corresponding to those lunar
days, representatives of the 30 Days of the Month, the Gad: 0/11): "
Months, and finally three Female Figure: with raised hands t.

On the N. Wall of this hall, on either side of the door to Hall D,
are scenes from the Founding of the Temple by the king similar to those
at Denderah. They are continued along the W. mu of the hall.

Next, as at Denderah, follow three Preacher Halls, with their
side-chambers, and here also the first of these, the Hot or Festat
Halt (PI. D) is much the largest. This hall is the only one of the
three that has columns, of which there are 12 arranged in three
rows, while the corresponding hall at Denderah had only 6 columns.
The side-chambers, however, are more numerous atDenderah, where
there were six, three on each side, while here there are but four,
viz. the Laboratory (PI. um) and a Passage Room (Pl. XVIII) in
front of it, on the W. side, and on the E. side another Passage Room
(P1. are), in the S. wall of which is a door leading to a Corner
Room (Pl. am). The next of the prosekos halls is the Hall of the
Altar (PL c), with two side-chambers (Pl. xrr on the W. and
Pl. err on the E), whence we reach the two great staircases leading to the roof of the temple. Both the structure of the staircases
and their plastic adornment closely resemble those at Denderah.
From the third and last Prosekos hall; the Wall of the Centre' or
of the'Repose of the Gods' (Pl. B), we enter on the right the two
connected'Rooms for the Offering of what is necessary" (Pl. XII it um),
and on the left the'Room of Kham' (Pl. xi). We now reach the
fishes Rooms. The Sanctuary (Pl. A) in the centre is, like the
sanctuary at Denderah, surrounded on all sides but the front by a
Corridor (Pl. e), from which 10 Side-Chambers open (Pl. I-vi on the
left or W., vn-x on the right or E. side). On the inside wall of
the corridor, tie. on the outside of the sanctuary, are represented
the gods of the districts or names. ... All these rooms, their size
and use, their plastic decorations, the painting, gliding, etc. are
fully described in the inscriptions and in the reliefs.

t See Brugsch, Monuments de l'Egypte, plates Yu-x,,








