252 Route 23. EDFU. Horus
Two important and specially instructive Inscriptions describe the
various rooms in order in the course of a summary review. One of these
{ arms the lower marginal inscription on the outside of the E. girdle-wall;,
the other is on the outside of the W. wall of the temple pro eat-l
The inscriptions at Edfu begin their account of the di erent room:
with Room L, at the centre of the rear-wall of the temple, which they
name'Divider of the Middle' (comp. p, 218). Thence they proceed to the
rooms lying to the right and left, and then to the Adytum (m. A) and
the Prilsakos moms in front of it. Those who desire to follow the
description in order begin at Room L or this so. it is said:'The apartment Messrs (No. 1) is in its (the temple's) centre as the chief apartment,
with the great throne of the dispenser of rays; the goddess Ma is with
him, as linker the great, in his shrine, the very secret place, in it (it.
the room), whose breadth is 81/3 oils and its depth 8%. Its wall is
painted with the cycle of the gods of the true Meson-chamber, their
forms according to their mommy en'. The word Messrs means here probably dwelling of the helpers t? Burns, In the second inscription this
room is also named Ha ken,'chamber of the victor', and it is stated that
'the figure of the "protecting Hum, in his noble shape as a perching
hawk, an all high, with the scourge (is there to be seen). The goddess
Ma is before him; she does not separate herself from him, who is ever
united with her. As Rather, the great, she is with him in the shrine
within the mysterious cella of dark granite'. Room 111. is named'the
right chamber' and the'west chamber' or'dedicated to the god of the
west' (Osiris); Room In,'the chamber of the great' (Osiris); Room IV,
'the inner-room of the tomb-chamber'. These three are the Osiris Rooms.
Room v is called the'room of the throne of the gods'; Room VI, the
'cloth-chamber'; then on the E. side, Room VII,'the Sebek-chamber' of
the moon-god Khunsu; Room VIII, the sanctuary of Hath-, und Room IX,
the'throne-room of Ra'. Of Room X we read:'the Room of the Spreader
of Wings (No. it) contains on its E. wall the divine image of the lion »
headed goddess of the north, and of the cycle of gods, that watch
over Osiris. There is the god Shu as the representative of the N. wind,
inflating his nostrils, as is his wont in the kingdom of eternity (he. the
underworld), and the lion-headed goddess Tefnut as the representative
of devouring fire, in the act of burning his (Osiris s) enemies, as she does
it in the place that is the goal of millions (another name for the underworld). There also are the goddess Menu, daughter of the sun, with her
backward glance, and the great Sekhet-Artemis, the mistress of the goddesses of vengeance".

The Adytum or Help of Home (PL A) is next described:'The room
of the great throne (is. the adytum) in the tantra, round which the
passage runs, is in oils 192/3 + 1Is by low, A door leading into the par
sage is found on its right and on its left side, in order to reach the
closed rooms lying round it. The sacred boat of Tesneferu the brighteoloured and his sacred shrine are placed there; his great cells, of dark
granite, it is a wonder to behold it'. This Got ta of dark granite, erected
by King Nectanebus, stands to this day in the adytum (p. 246).

With reference to the Staircases the inscription states that the E. stair
was ascended on New Year's Day, in order to unite the god with his
soul, and that the W. stair was ascended to offer sacrifice in the morning.
Of the Doors in Hall D the inscription says:'The door upon in W. side
is for the bringing of refreshing water, and that on its E. side for the
bringing of meat-offerings'.

We now betshe ourselves to the passage round the temple proper
(Pi. E). Special attention should be bestowed on the inscriptions

and reliefs on the Inside ofthe W. Girdle-watt (Pit i" f), representing

, Published by Diimiohen and Brugsch in the rEgyptische Zeitschritt
for 1873 and 1873..

H- Published by deichen in his Tempelinschriften, plates 91-94, and
De Rouge, in his Emu, 74-77,








