Temple.' EDFU. 23. Route. 253

the contests of the god Home with his enemies who are depicted
as crocodiles and hippopotami. Perhaps the overthrow of the foes
of King Ptolemy K. Soter H. is symbolically represented in these
compositions The cartouches on this wall probably belong to this
king; one of them contains the name of Ptulmis, while the other is
vacant. The name of Ptolemy XI. Alexander L does not appear
until near the left extremity of the wall, towards the end of the
list of names.

The Representations, ranged in two registers, are 22 in number. The
chief are the following: list Scene (below, to the right). The king, standing on shore, attempts to transfix a hippopotamus, that bends its head
aside. Ham, who is accompanied by his mother Isis does the same; in
his left hand he holds a chain, and in his right a Javelin; beside the
helm is a small Horus.---2nd Scene. The king appears on land, before
two ships, in each of which are a Home and an assistant with a hour's
head. Horas holds the hippopotamus with a chain and pierces its head
with a javelin; the assistant carries a javelin in his right hand and a
knife in his left. width Scene. The hippopotamus lies on its back. with
a chain fastened to its hind teet ,--7th Scene (the finest of all). Home,
in a ship with expanded sail, aims a blow with his right hand at the
head of a hippopotamus, whose hind foot is caught in a line held in the
gore left hand. Isis kneeling in the bow of the boat holds the head of
the animal by a cord. The king, standing on the bank with two attendants armed with javelin and knife. seeks to pierce the skull of the
hippopotamus.
On the inside of the N. Girdle-wall (PL g g) are several long
hymns to the god of Edfu .--The traveller is recommended to walk
round the outside of the girdle-wall, which is also completely
covered with representations and inscriptions. The above-mentioned
important inscription relating to the history of the temple is to be
seen on the outside of the W. Watt [ PL i), and the description of
the various rooms outside the E. Walt (Pl. k). The eight Records
of Donations of Fields arealso on the E. well. These inscriptions
and the decoration of the entire external face of the girdle-wall
date from the reign of Ptolemy XI. Alexander L (106-87 8.0.).

The half-buried Birth House (Hamish, lying to the left of the entrance
to the great temple of Horus, is less worthy of a visit. It was built by
Ptolemy IX. Euergetes 11,, while the interior decorations me from
Soter II. In the Interior are seven representations of Humor, who muitale the birth of the young Home and nourish him.

24. From Edfu to Gebel Silsileh.

Comp. the Map, p. 38.

26 hi. Steamboat in 4 hrs. Only the four-weeks tourist steamer spends
the night at Silsileh and ad'ords time for a visit; the three-weeks steamer
and the mail-steamer go on to Kdm Ombon

On the E. bank, about5 M, aboveEdfu, is the village ofRedesiyeh.
after which a Temple of Sell 1., lying 37 M. to the E. has been
named, because the ancient desert-route from Reddsiyeb to the
emerald-mines of Mt, Zubarah leads vi' the temple.

The Anh name of the place is Wadi mews. The temple is in the
district of the'Abdtdeh Bedding, who are independent of the dwellers in
the Nile "valley and assume a hostile attitude bothpihtowardéswt d to





