254 Route N, EL-HOSH. Prom mfu

the Egyptian government. They also have a language of their own.
Their domain extends to the Red See. It is therefore necessary before
beginning this desert-expedition (11/2 day; camel and tent necessary) to
secure the protection of the thékh ofthe'Alstlrdee - The route leads through
a sandstone region, with many small seyWauseias. Passin a (A hrs.)
Well and then the Tomb of a saint, we reach the (3 hrs.) first Station
on the desert-route, consisting of two rectangular spaces 45-50 ft. long
surrounded by walls. The Second Station, on the route leading to the
Red Sea (comp. R. 6, p. 78), is 6 lure. farther on. Near mass the temple,
beautifully situated at the foot of an isolated hill. The road to gage: (p. 77) diverges to the N., at a valley planted with cocaine.

The Temple was discovered in 1816 by Godhead, on his first journey
to the mines of Mt. Zobdroh, where he found old emerald-mines instead
of the sulphur that he expected. It is about it) it. long, and the front
portion is occupied by a VESTIBULE, about 22 ft. wide, with A columns,
of which the first pair form the entrance. The representation here
are familiar to us from other Egyptian temples. King Sen 1. appears
before Amman--Re, who hands to him the sword of victory.'He smites
the princes of the miserable Kosh' (Ethic in). Behind Amman are 10
names of tattered tribes. Amman speaks: Receive the sword, Oh King,
lord of the pas ice, to smite down the princes of Koch and to out off their
heads. Fear 0 thee penetrates their limbs like Sekhet in her wrath.' On
the other well the king appears before Herbalist (Em), once more smiting
his foes, - At the rear-wall of this vestibule and in two niches to the
right and left of the entrance to the next hall are Osiris Statues. The next
HALL, about 16% it. square, is, like the hack-wall of the preceding, entirely
hewn out of the rock It contains 4 pillars. At the back are three niches
each with a triad of gods; in the centre is Romances (Soil 1.) himself.
The interesting Inscriptions here record, among other things, that the king
came hither in the 9th year of his reign on his way to the gold-mines,
accompanied by a large retinue and by architects, and caused wells to he
sunk, em, - On an adjoining rock are three scales, On one of these is
the goddess Ami: on horseback, with a shield in her left hand; the second
is dedicated to the official entrusted by Seti with the sinking of the well;
and on the third is the kneeling figure of Ant, king's son of Rush and
commander of the Masai (police). Higher up on the rock are figures
of gazelies, Greek tP., and the prsenomen of Amenhotep m. preceded
by the statement: made by prince Marines".

Farther along the E. bank (12 M. from Edie), on the mountainslopes approaching close to the river near the hill cs-Scrag, are the
picturesque remains of an ancient Arab fortress with a mosque.
This is sometimes identified with the ancient Tomato, which,
however, more probably lay farther to the 8.

Near the village of el-Edsh beside the Gchsl Abe Shegoh, on the
W. bank, a great number of inscriptions and drawings of very
various dates have been found scratched on the rocks.

The oldest King's Name met with is that of an Usertesen (12th Dyn.),
but most of the devices are of a very much later date. Greek names
are not wanting, and most of the inscriptions appear to have been carved
by manna: who worked in the large quarries, which are still to be found
beside the village of childish. The signature of a builder's foreman,

Amam, and numerous stonemssons'marhn, 1 e 3 89 X3

0
seem to support this conclusion.

We here find girailjes, horses, gazelles, boats, fighters, eta, closely
resembling those at Wadi Mokatteb (Vol. L, p. 498); and there is also
the picture of a man with an or, an elephant, an ostrich, and a capitelly
executed dog. Among Egyptian Names are those of hmenhotep Asarhotep,







