to Gebct Sihitch. GEBEL SILSILEH. 24. Route. 255



l
a military colonel 1, Rob Ranseneb, overseer of the temple of

' 0 if; 3:

Koptos, and Rebtan, overseer of granaries. In few cases, unfortunately,
are the reigns mentioned in which they were written. The Greeks generally
wrote merely their names, some of them suggesting a Christian date, no.

UAXOYMIO§ (Pachumiosl, UETROS (Panes). We also find a

¢iL71MON (Philemon), EYENOE (EuenoaL and other names, beside
which not more than the common rd records on, an act of reverence or
worship, stood. The inscriptions are found or miles, scratched on the
rocks and crags of the low hills skirting the river; they are most
numerous to the N. of the Villager }

A little to the N. are several Greek Inscriptions, first discovered by
A. C. Harris. These date from the 11th year of the emperor, Antoninus
Plus (149 All) and record that a master-en laser is? Ennyastuot) quarried
huge blocks if 11 m; (id it.) for the gate 5mm) of polio (at a { u'0.

On the W. bank, 1/4 hr. above ssl-Wish and about 3/4111. below
Silsileh, is a gorge known as Shatt ere-Regal,'Shore of the Men',
or es » - sab'a regal,'the seven men', On the left side of a cliff here,
a few paces from the river-bank, is a most interesting relief (also
discovered by Harris) representing the Homage of an inferior king

5;

a
) Entef before Mcntuhotep HI. (0 < 7 8) Rd nab

W
Ether, the uniter of the two lands, and before the king's mother
Ash (moon). Behind Eutef is a chamberlain named Kheti.

This Mentuhotep, with the stad of empire in his hand, was an important king at the close of the 11th Dyan, and his name is mentioned in
all the extant lists of kings. A stole (now at Turin) dating from the 46th
year of his reign attests his long and. prosperous role. He seems to have
been the first monarch after a long interval (swim; Dyn.) to unite the
whole kingdom under a single empire... and he is thus a worthy predecessor
of the Amenemhas and Usertesens of the 12th Dynasty.

On the right site of the cliff is the name of Permit, an architect
who worked under Amenhotep L, Tutmes II. Farther
up in the some valley occur the signatures of other royal officials,
and also (according to Petrie) the joint cartouches of Hatasu
and Tutmes m., with another mention of Peneti below them. -r.

A second Scene of Homage before King Rasankhha (a P f U),

the successor of Ranebkher or Mentuhotep, is repeated by Petrie,
who also discovered other kings' names, some hitherto unknown, on
these rocks.

26 M, Gebel Silsileh (Mountain of the Chain). Though we land
on the W. bank on which the most interesting monuments lie, we
should not omit to visit also the E. bank, where there are larger
quarries than on the Libyan side.

At Gabe! Silsileh begins the Sandstone Zone of the Nile valley (Vol L,
d. 56). The rocky hills which here confine the bed of the river supplied

the material for most of the gigantic buildings we have already visited,
for where monuments exposed to the air were to be erected the Egyptians



i" They are published in Flinders Petrie's'A Season in Egypt" (LOW



