256 Route N, GEBEL SILSILEH. From mm

preferred sandstone to limestone and even to the harder but more easily
disintegrating granite. For substructures, however, and for walls
surrounded with earth they wisely gave the preference to limestone.
--The hills on the two banks of the river approach so close together
at (label Silsileh that they have justly been compared to the pillars of a
gigantic gateway. The legend of the chain that once barred the passage
of the river here is probably pure invention, taking its rise from the
Coptic name of the city of quarries, which in the hieroglyphics is named

Po Kittens. The later Egyptians named the town "303 XOR is. see »
pas, claustrum, barrier, probably in reference to the gorge of the man
The Romans, who maintained a garrison here, converted the Tel t'el of
the Egyptians mm maze, which was confounded by the Arabs with
sealer », the Arabic for'chain'. The people, seeking meanings for every
name and preferring those that some in the guise of a legend thereupon
invented the story of a chain, that once barred the gorge at Gehel Silslleh.
By and by the very place where this mythical chain had been fastened
came to be pointed out.

The dhahabiyehs generally halt in the very midst of the monuments. We turn first to the N., ascend a wellwheaten track, and
then gradually descend the rocky hill. On the slope beside the river
are some tomb-like Recesses, belonging to officials of the 18th
Dyn., with the names of Tutmes Hi. and his sister Bataan over the
entrance. In one of these, the surface of which is divided into
squares, some of the figures are sketched but left unfinished.
Farther on is a cave with a painted ceiling. Beside it are inscriptions of the time of Ramses 111., builder of Medinet Habu,
who is represented before Amman, Math, and Khunsu. There is
also a larger memorial tablet of the let year of Sheshenk L
(22nd Dyn.) Sheshenk had commanded his architect Horemsat to
quarry stones at Silsileh for the gateway erected by the king on
the S. side of the first court of the temple of Ammon at Karnak.
Immediately to the N. is a Side bearing various conventional phrases



and dating from Ramses V. (, whose name seldom occurs

W
on the monuments. Finally we reach the broad facade of the
shallowW

*Rock Chapel (Specs), which may be reckoned among the most
important monuments in the Nile valley, on account of its reliefs
and inscriptions. This chapel, harm in the rock close to the summit of a hill, dates from the 18th Dyn. In front are fire doorways,
separated from each other by pillars at varying distance, and crowned
with the astragal and concave cornice. Numerous gods are named
in it. Sebek, who forms a triad with Amman-Ra and Math, takes
the first place; Fish of Memphis is also mentioned. King Home is
here spoken of as the beloved of the Anka-t (emu),'Mistress of
Asia', and this Egyptian-Phranician goddess is represented with a
head-dress, elsewhere only found on the heads of Asiatic warriors.

The Interior consists of a broad but shallow vaulted chamber, at the
back of which is an oblong room. All the walls are covered with carving

and inscriptions. On the 8. wall is the Urmus goddess, alluring tha Inch"
to { he in out king Horus, while above her head hovers the vulture of








