toGebclSitsiteh. GEBEL SILSILEH.

uebanct Os ma hacklwall, to our left as we enter, King Home is depicted
returning in triumph from his campaign in Ethiopia.

This mam, of great artistic value, shows the Pharaoh seated on
his throne which is home by 12 noble: adorned with feathers. The throne
has lions" feet and its back also consists of lions. The king wears the
war-helmet and carries the staff of empire in his left hand. Behind
and before him are court-officials, warding off the sun's rays with the
longuhandled flabellnm. The Kherheb precedes the litter, offering incense,
and a train of captured Ethiopians is led along by the victor. Vanquished
blacks are lying on the ground and others are being rapidly marched oil"
by Egyptian soldiers. Above the captives are the words:'Leading of the
captives of the miserable Knah by Horus, king of Upper and Lower
Egypt, ate, His majesty came out of the land of Each (Ethiopia) with
the booty which his sword had made, as his father Amnion had commanded him". Before the priests, who stand in a reverential attitude, is
written:'The good god approaches, he celebrates his victory over the great
ones of all lands. When he gnaw the bow in his right hand he is like
the lord of Themes (he. Month, the god of war), as king of harass. Above the prisoners is the inscription:'Hail to thee, king of
Egypt, sun of the barbarians! Thy name is extolled in the land of the
Ethiopians. Thy battle--cry resounds over their seats. Thy heroic strength,
o then perfect prince, comma the alien lands into tombs. Pharaoh, long
life and health, o my sun-god? (She).

Farther to the right and also on the backwwall is a recess with King
Siptah Khuenra before Amman, with mu, an official (overseer of the
whole land; then a stale of the time of Ramses L,
and upon it the first tablet of the Festival instituted by the king's son
Khaemus in honour of his father Ramses II. The first tablet dates from
the 30th year, the second from the 34th, the third from the 37th, and the
fourth from the 40th.

Beside the pillar is the small Sanctuary of Ramses H. To the left of
the entrance is King Horus (who built the sanctuary), before Harmachis
and the goddess Jesse, and the same king before Ammon-Ra and Math.
At the back of the very dark recess is a god, with three forum on each
side. Numerous figures of gods. To the right of the entrance to the
sanctuary is a reproduction of the Festival Stale mentioned above. Adjoining is the stale of the high-priest Moi, who instituted a festival in
the third year of Merenptah I. Farther on is another Festival State, with
Ramses 11. before Harmachis and Much, Ptah, and Schek. The date is
the same as on the preceding, but the marshal of the festival is here the
Erpa Ha (prince) and mayor Shot. The same official appears also in the
same stole of the 46th year of Ramses II. as marshal of the 6th festival
in the whole land (Khaemus had probably died in the interval).

The numerous reliefs above and below the five doors and in the rev
ceases outside should also be noticed. Over the central door: King Horas,
here called the beloved of Amman and Math," of Khnum, of Abu, and of
Auk, mistress of Sati (Asia). Over the second door (from the left):
Ramses III. with the commander of his cavalry. Between the fourth and
fifth this king presents his to Arthur. Last relief on the right: Ramses 11,
brings MI u, 1'th in his shrine and to Sebek. Within the adjacent fifth



door is the small chapel of Pa war, in which Ramses ll.
appears with his consort Astnefcrt and a princess (Bainut aunt) before
Fish and Nefertum. There is also a small figure of Khaemus. On the
inside of the front wall is a Hieratic Inscription of the tith year of Rainsee 111., containing a command to Sctemhst, overseer of the palace, to
build in the house of eternity in the W. of Thebes (as. the tomb of
Ramses III. in Bibdn elwhfnlnk. The number of workmen under him
(M), ships (40), and boats (d) are detailed. Two other hieratic Inscripu
time, of a similar purport, are to be found on the central doorway, to the
right and left. T

mgunxm Upper_Egypt.








