258 Route 24. GEBEL SILSILEH. From mm

The "Metronome are THE SOUTH are as interesting as those just
described, from which they are reached in about 1/4 hr. The route
leads to the 5., sometimes skirting the river-bank, sometimes leading through the ancient quarries. We first reach Two Chambers,
with the openings facing the river, and recesses at the back. At
the first are two, and at the second are three unnamed sitting stew
tues, hewn out of the rock. The chambers belonged to officials of
Tutmes 111., whose name occurs over the entrance along with those
of Ammon Harmachis and Sebek. The first cave belonged to Khan
misfit, overseer of granaries, who is here represented along with his
wife. The second, to the N., belonged to the mayor Amulet and his
wife, and contains a series of figures. To the S. occurs the name of

Amenhotep H. a go; o n An hhcpem; with two small Stem in

bad preservation on the left, and two others, better preserved, on
the right. Farther to the S. near the river is a brightly painted Case,
with painted ceiling. A relief here depicts Amonemhat, a high
priest of Ammon (probably, from his name, under the 12th Dyn.)
sacrificing to his parents and those of his wife Mimi.

The guides point out large square holes in the lofty rocks as
having been used to fasten the above--mentioned mythical chain of
Silsileh. Skirting the bushy river--bank we presently reach three
Inscribed Tablets, offering a picturesque appearance as seen from
the Nile. Two of them, adorned with concave cornices and with
doors, lie close beside each other. The architrave is borne by sculptured bud-columns, the shafts of which represented stems of plum
bound together by a band. Both of these brightly painted facades
act as frames for large Sum, placed at the back of small chapels
about 6 ft. deep. That to the S. (left) was erected by Ramses H.
in the first year of his reign, that to the N. (right) by Merenptah I.
(Boat-hi-ma) in his first year. Each is formed of three parts. At
the top is the triad to which it was dedicated, next is a Hymn to
the Nile, and below is a list of sacrifices. In the one case the divine
triad consists of Ammon, Math, and Khunsu, the chief triad of
Upper Egypt. in the other of Ra Harmachis, Ptah, and Hopi, recallm
ing Lower Egypt. A third, similar Stole, dating from the 6th year
of Ramses 111., is to be'seen on an isolated rock to the right. All
are more or less damaged; but a restoration of the text, which is
the same on all three, with a few trifling variations, is rendered
possible by collation.

L. Stem has published a German Translation of the corrected inscription on the stale of the first year of Ramses IL (the eldest Ind beat
given preserved), with a collation of the other two. A few extracts are here
from this thrice-repeated Hymn to the Nile, the god to whom Egypt owed
her very origin, and upon whom she was dependent for the conditions of
continued existence from year to year. Similar hymns to the some god
have come down to us in a papyrus from the hand of Am, one of the

meet famoue'euthore of the period of the Pharaohs; and these are clearly
connected with the hymn now before us. The ineeriptio begins'In the








