to Gebcl Silsileh. GEBEL SILSILEH. 24. Route. 259

in: year, on the 10th Epiphi, in the reign of His Majesty ale.... RamsesMiamun, who loves the t the father of the gods, his creator. Long
may he live, possessing firmness and might, eternally. Long live the
beneficent god, the Nile that loves the primeval waters (Mum the father
of the gods, who form the cycle of the nine deities, which belong to the
floods, the blessing, the abundance, the support of Egypt, who blesses
all the world with life by his rich abundance, who is dignified in his
course and distributes blessings with his fingers. The elect are rejoiced
at his approach. Thou art one that best created thyself, and no man
knows whence thou an. On the day that thou comest out of thy surroundings, all the world rejoices. Thou art a lord of many fishes and
gifts, who bestowest nourishment upon Egypt. Even the nine deities
know not whence thou art. Thou art their life. Therefore when thou
approachest they redouble their offerings; they furnish the altars richly
and raise their voices in sanitation when thou appearest. Than metest
rich measure to us, to nourish the elect, like its when he ruled this land.
Strong and wakeful is he at all times, to seek nourishment for the living,
to make the corn abundant like the sand of the seashore, and to land
the granaries with gifts. Behold, therefore His Majesty sought how he
might exalt the father of all gods, the prince and ruler of the flood, and
meditated like the god Tehuti (Thoth) to find out what was adequate to
his love (he. how he might give most adequate expression to his love).
No king has done so since thy time, Oh net And His Majesty spoke:
'Whereas the Nile nourishes the world, and blessing and abundance
follow upon his rising, and behold each one liver: in his dwelling, enriched
through his command; and seeing that I know what stands in the bookstore that is preserved in the library; therefore when the Nile comes
forth from his two sources, then let the offerings to the gone be im
creased; but it the holy stream is at Silsileh'...... Khennu-t),

5':
at the right time, King Ramses II. will redouble the shortage to it there.

This king appointed two festivals to be kept at Silsileh in honour
of the Nile, as the following portion of the inscription records. One was
to be observed at the beginning of its gradual rise (the 15th Epiphi), the
other on the 15th Thoth, when the rapid rise set in L, Stem compares
these appropriately to the two main festivals of the modern Egyptians,
the Night of the Drop, and the Cutting ofthe Dam, which are also two months
apart (Vol. L, p. 239). Merenptah l. and Ramses ill. confirmed the grants
made by Bosses II. for the purposes of these festivals, and erected the above'
mentioned Males in commemoration of the fact The nature of the grants
(sacrificial bread and cakes, antelopes, beef, veal, six kinds of wine,
honey, oil, beer, milk, essences, eta) is recorded in the lists below the
inscriptions, from which we also learn that the king od'ered fowls to the
river-gode and as much corn as a granary could contain to Amman of
Thebes. - The side-Walls of the two chapels are also occupied with
scenes of sacrifice and worship.

Various opinions have been expressed as to the reason of the
special reverence paid to the Nile at this particular defile. The
narrows of Silsileh were perhaps difficult or even impossible to
pass in earliest antiquity, and so probably came to be regarded as
the second entrance of the river into Egypt, the first being at the
cataract at Assudn. This is the more probable as Kdm Ombo was
certainly reckoned as belonging to Nubia.

Between the above-mentioned chapels of Ramses H. and Maren-o
ptah, is a small Stole erected by the mayor Punched (p. 257), who
appears here along with a son of the king accompanying the king
before Amman. The prayer is addressed not only to Amman, but
also to the'holy water' (mu ab, seashore) audio this" S 1'






