269 Route 25. Ken 0Meo.

A few-panes farther to the S, and at a lower level than the
ste! es.'is a small Chapel, which in spite of its very ruinous condition, we can recognize as having been founded by the great builder
Neti I. The inscriptions on the stale are completely obliterated .-To the right of this chapel is a carefully hewn but empty Recess, and
in the same cliff but facing N. in the direction of the two stems, is
a Tablet of a chiefe-priest of Ammon named Rot, who here appears
with Merenptah it. before the god.

The Quarries on the W. bank of the Nfle are of enormous size,
but few traces of inscriptions are now to be found. An Inscription
of Amenhotep 111., however, records the transport of stones by the
Nile for a temple of Ptah (at Memphis') There are two Posts of
the time of Seti L, and Demotic Inscriptions from Roman times.
An unfinished colossal Sphinr, nearly opposite the usual landingplace of the dhahabiyehs, is also not without interest. Even if all
the monuments of Egypt had disappeared, these huge quarries
would serve as a proof that building operations of unsurpassed "tent had once been carried on here. The town of Khannu appears
to have stood here, not on the E. bank. A few unimportant ruins
may be traced.

_ According to papyri new in Turin, the residence of the kings of the
12th Dyn, the Amenemhas and Usertesens, was transferred to Khulna.
Under the 19th and 20th Dyn. this town possessed a University. A papy
rus, new in the British Museum, contains a warning to the students of
this institution against excessive beerudrinhing and idleness.

M. (393/2 hi. from Edfu). Kdm Ombo is a Steamer Station, at which
the three-weeks tourist-steamer halts 1/2 hr., the four-weeks steamer 1 ha,
both on the upward voyage; while the mail-steamer passes a night here
on the downward voyage..

The mountains recede from the river immediately above the
defile of Gebel Silsileh (p. 255), giving space to the desert which
appears grey on the Arabian side and yellow on the Libyan side.
The narrow cultivable strip is tilled by peasants of a distinctly darker
complexion than the fellihin of the Thebaid. Both land and people
approach gradually nearer to the Nubian type. At the village of
Mcniyeh (E. bank) we enter the E. branch of the stream, which here
forms the island of Mantstrheh, with a village of the same name.
On the W. bank of the Nile, opposite the lower and of this island, lies
Aha Manger, where Amelia claims to have discovered stone implements in a deposit of gravel containing marine mussels, which was
overlaid by more recent deposits of the river.

On a hill on the E. hank next appears the beautiful I" Temple of
Kern Ombo, conspicuous from a considerable distance. Somewhat
nearer the river is another temple, now almost entirely destroyed.
The double door of the hypostyle of the higher temple presents an

"i



