KoM came. 25. Route. 261

imposing appearance; but the nearer we approach the temple, the
more clearly we perceive that the stream has already washed away
the pylons and colonnade, and that in no long time the whole of
the handsome building will be undermined, like the temple of Kain
el-Kebir (p. 48). Large fragments of the building are even now to
be seen sunk beneath the stream, near its edge. On one of these is
the dedication inscription, recording that the building had been
founded as'a work to endure for eternity'. The high-lying ruins
of Kim Ombo are especially picturesque by the light of the
full moon.

A single glance is enough to reveal to the practised eye that a
comparatively late monument lies before the traveller. Ptolemy VII.
Philometor founded the temple:
(Faemtemzel Ast en mrteru pie

ptah khcper sotep en amen or m
begotten by Ptah, chosen by Amman, making the truth of Ita,
Euergetes IL, Ptolemy XIII. Neos Dionysus, his wife Cleopatra V.,
and at a later date Tiberius enlarged the building. It belonged to

a
the Egyptian town [ W ] q, q o Nobi (Coptic not), called by the

Greeks Ombos, as capital of the district Ombitco, which formerly
was part of the Nubian nomos, while from the Egyptian Nubi they
formed the names UnbimOmbi and Omboi ("031.300.

It would be a great error to dispute in face of the present building,
the existence of an earlier temple on this site. A gateway which existed
on the E. side of the girdle-wall down to 1870 showed on its jambs the
figure of Tutmes 111., builder of the temple, which was named Pa Sebek
(temple of the crocodile--headed Sebek) in the inscription of Remake. beneath. According to Champollion the door-posts were provided by one
of the Ptolemies with a new lintel; the old lintel, dating from Tutmeg m,
was found on the river-bank in 18% by Mas ere, t along with a door-post
bearing the name of Amenhotep L, and a lock of same with the cartouche of Ramses the Great. The old temple of Talmas nt. probably faced
the east.

Corresponding to the double division of this temple, two different
triads were especially worshipped within it. The chief of the first
was Sfibdkwfla with the crocodile-head, along with whom were Hathor and Khunsu; at the head of the second was Har-war, the elder
Horus [ Amends ], with whom were associated Tasentnefert (the good
sister) and her son Pinebtati, lord of both lands. The entire left
half of the temple was dedicated to the triad of Arueris, the right
half to that of Sebek. The coins of Ombos display a warrior, with
a lance in one hand and a crocodile in the other; figures which ro-,
present Horns and Sebek in the Roman style. The memory of the
worship of the two divine brothers in the same temple seems to have
lingered in the following legend, related to the writer by a boatman at Kern Ombo.

'Once upon a time two brothers reigned as princess of Ombo
was wicked and strong, the other was good. 1 his









