K611 once.



fellow-men, was expelled by his wicked brother, and when he departed
towards the N", all the inhabitants of Ombo went with him as his cumpanions, leaving the town by night. It was then the season for sowing.
When the wicked prince mum his vizier said to him,'All thy subjects
have left the country along with my brother; who will now plough the
fields?" The wicked prince was very angry when he heard that; but as
he was a great magician he said,'Then the dead must help me". So he
summoned the dead from their graves; and in the morning he beheld from
his castle (the temple) the dead at work, ploughing and sewing. But
when the harvest came, not a blade grew in the fields, for the dead had
carried the ploughs in the air above the earth and had sowed sand instead of grain. Then the wicked prince once more was angry and descended from his castle to convince himself with his own eyes of the
failure of the harvest. When he saw not only that no blade of corn ew
green, but also that the former fields were now covered with can, he
uttered a terrible cum so fearful that his castle fell to the earth, and a
block of stone crushed him to death".

The temple of Wim Ombo is a Double Temple, and it is the
only one in Egypt that is divided along its longer axis into two distinctly defined parts. Even the entrance has two portals In the interior
the various chambers are not approached as usual by one door each;
everywhere two doorways are seen, by broad pillars each of
which is a point in the imaginary line indicating the division between
the two portions of the temple. The plan of the whole may be made
out with perfect certainty, though many of the rooms, especially
those towards the rear, are largely sanded up. The temple moreover
contained two sanctuaries, a fact which is scarcely surprising after
what has been said of the two chief deities, Arueris and Sebek.

The Hypostyle Pronaos .--The Double Portal of the main
temple consists of two doors, framed by three columns and each
displaying a concave cornice and a winged sun-disc. The floor of
the hypostyle is encumbered with sand. Thirteen columns are still
standing, each of which measures no less than 20 it. round the
middle of the shaft. The two corner columns in front are apparently
wanting; there were in all three rows of five or perhaps three rows
of seven. The capitals, of great variety of form, belong to the
Ptolemaiangyptian order; but they differ in various points from
those to be seen at Denderah, Esneh, and Edfn. The middle column
in the back row has a Calyx-capital, with a foliage-eup displaying
a unique ornamentation, with three flowers and three buds springing from it. The unfinished calyxucapital of the most northerly
column in the same Crass) row has, at its base, a month of flowers
with serrated edges, between which are arranged pairs of buds, each
pair surmounted by a slam-pointed star, though elsewhere the Egyptian star is always five-pointed X.

This hypostyle was built by Ptolemy XIII. Neos Dionysus and
his wife Cleopatra v,,, whose surname Tryphaena is of frequent occurrence among the Ptolemies The name of the builder

(Um-1% E) Ad n pi water all nchcm, son of Soter, is to be
519"

found on the abacus beneath the two-line entranreoinscription, part








