KGM OMBO,, .25,, Route. Ram 263

of which lies on the ground, and also on the interior columns. The
rear-wall of the hypostyle, i.e. the entranceowall of the adjoining
hall with ten columns, dates from Ptolemy IE, Euergetes II. and his
two wives, Cleopatra 111 .--Above the door of
the right (Sebek) side of the temple this king appears with his first
wife and sister, presenting the figure of his to Sebek, Esther, and
Khnnsn; above the left door he appears with his second wife,
before Arueris, Tasentnefert, and Piuebtati. Between the cornice
and frieze are the dedicatory inscriptions, on the left to Harwar, on
the right to Sebek. To the right and left of the two doors to the next
(first) room in the direction of the Pronaos, are other two rows of
Dedication Scenes. To the right (Sebek side): in the lower row,
is King Euergetes II. presenting wine to 81111 and Tefnut, farther
to the right, the king with two nosegays before Seb, the first born
of the gods, and Sebek Nnbti; then the king before the celestial
goddess Nut, mother of the gods, and Esther, mistress of Nubt;
and finally before Osiris, Isis, and Nephthys (partly broken). In
the upper row, the king presents Sebek with two wine-vessels,

upon which is a basket =2. In a third scene, the king appears

'w



before the wife (Tasentnefert) and son (Pinebtati) of Sebek. - To
the left (Ameris side): in the upper row, to the left, is the king
before Sebek, Hathor, and Khunsn, Her neb mat (Home, the

42 > broad-hearted), and then the same with two Use eyes be.

fore a moon-god (celled Harwar by Champollion) and another god
J'imsbtstieJ. The presentation of the two eyes (Use) refers to the
united lands of Lower and Upper Egypt, or perhaps to Nubia and
Egypt, of which the temple of Om'bos wag a representation. The
name of City of the two Use, moreover, is frequently bestowed upon
(Bamboo, and was perhaps its sacred name..... In a third scene, in
the upper row, the king presents two vessels to Harvest and Esther.
m in. the lower row, the king presents the seated figure of Me to
Harwar, Tasentnefert, and Pinebtati.

The traveller's attention may now be directed to the Astranomicot Representations, some of which are only outlined in red
and left unfinished. The constellations in boats floating over the
heavens, on the ceilinguside of the architrave, are the most important. The squares into which the surfaces were divided to guide
the artist in drawing the figures are still visible, and prove that the
recognized proportions of the various parts of the human body to
each other were here not identical with those regarded by the artists
of earlier epochs.

Lepsins, who had already established the existence of two canons of
proportion, here discovered a third, and demonstrated that in the epoch
of the Ptolemies the human body was no longer divided into 18 Ear };
from the crown of the head to the soles of the feet, but Into We,
as Diodorus states.'The central point between browmepde 3,316 { @ 133 in



