It

264 Route 25. ROM 0- ""0.
all three divisions beneath the hips. Thence downwards the proportions
according to the second and third canons are the same; but those
of the upper part of the body differ very essentially. The head is larger,
the chest recedes farther, the abdomen is higher. The contours become in general fuller, and abandon that early beautiful simplicity and
tenderness of form, on which depended their imposing and specially
Egyptian character, in favour of an imperfect imitation of an unassimilated style of art. The proportion of the foot to the total length of the
body still remains, but the foot is no longer the fundamental unit of
measurement'.

The smaller Colonnaded Hall (two rows of d and 2 central columns), lying behind the hypostyle, is filled with send, but access
may be gained by creeping through one of the half-choked doorways.

Within is the hieroglyphic Dedication Inscription ot Euergetes II.

D
and of his two concerts, one of whom is called his sister g ©, the
fish
W
second his wife a 2. On the back-wall of this hall, beneath the

%
cornice, is the hieroglyphic dedication of Ptolemy XIII. News
Dionysus to the two chief deities of the temple, and beneath it the
Week Dedication Inscription, written in unusually fine uncial
characters. i"'

The translation is as follows: -'la honour of King Ptolemy and
Queen Cleopatra, his sister, the godlike Philometores and their children,
the foot-soldiers, cavalry and others stationed In the Ombitian district
(erected) this temple to Armada, the great god, Apollo, and the gods worn
shipped with him in the same temple (mt rot: 3:03;), in consequence of their (the gods") goodwill towards them". From this inscription it appears that the garrison and officials of the Nubian district, which
included Umbos, undertook an adornment of the temple of the gods, to
whom they applied the Egyptian name Ameris (Harwar) and tha amok
name Apollo, in gratitude for some special mark of favour shown to them
by the gods.

Beside the door of the next room, the second in the direction
of the Presses, is a seven-lined Calendar of Festivals. The hall
itself was built by Euergetes H. The third room is the first that
shows Ptolemy WL Phuometor offering homage (cartouche see
p. 261). Here we see Ethat king before Homer and Taseutnefert,
and before Sebek and Hathor. _ A fallen block of stone exhibits all
the cartouches of the king. The entrance to the last Double Wam,
ber or Sanctuary, and the reliefs within it (including astronomical
scenes), also date from Philometer.

The 1? Temple in front of the larger one is new largely
overwhelmed by the Nile, but the Pylon on the 8., a few columns,

t The following copy, discriminating the words and showing the ace
cents, will assist the traveller to decipher am flue t% sors" tiw etc
a root.





