DARKWL 26. Route. 265

and some fragments of the walls of the temple proper still remain.
The temple stood from N. to S. On the pylon appears Ptolemy XIII.
Nana Dionysus sacrificing to the gods of Ombos. The some families
of gods are found here as in the larger temple: Home on one side,
Sebek and Esther on the other. There is also an altar. From the
frequently repeated figures of Ape, goddess of births, the remaining
walls of the temple proper seem to have belonged to a Pa mac or

CT!
Birth--house Dates are recorded, including the5 JEpago


menm or intercalated days, as the birth-day of Osiris and Home.
On the wall facing the N. are Euergetes II. and his wife fowling in
presence of Khem Ammon-Ra. Remains of topographical maps of
the names are also distinguishable

The names of Tiberius and several other Roman emperors may
be read on the scattered columns and fragments of walls.

Many blocks bearing interesting inscriptions may be found
between the temple and the Nile. Among them is one, [ unfortun
nately damaged, with a Sacred Inscription, specially composed for
Ombos, commencing:'Beginning of the chapter of the book of
sacred knowledge, composed for.the house of the venerable god, the

lord of Quebec



26. From Kom Gmbo to Aswan.
Comp. the Map, p. 38.

26% M. Steamboat in about 6 hours.

The W. side of the narrow river-channel is barren, while on the
B. side there is only a narrow strip of cultivated land. Dark-skinned,
nude Arabs of the tribe of the'Ababdeh (p. 253) here and there
work a wateruwheel. Occasionally a crocodile may be seen on the
bank; but travellers who second only to Philea are rarely gratified
with a sight of one of these reptiles, a station of the
mail-steamer, on the E. bank, marks the limit of Arabic. Here
begins the Ethiopian dialect known as Kenna, which differs essen'
tially from the dialects spoken farther to the S. by the Maker and
the Dongotoh (comp p, 304). Even in ancient Egypt, as we learn
from a papyrus, the inhabitants of the Delta did not understand the
speech of Elephantine.

The scenery becomes tamer after the village of Kubdniych, on
the W. bank At elvAtdrah, opposite, granite appears for the first
time. Before we reach Assudn the scenery assumes entirely new
aspects. As we approach the city, the scene presented to us is one
of great and peculiar beauty In front of no lies the S. extremity
of the island of Elephantine (p. 271), with its houses shining from
between the palm trees; the scarlet uniforms of British soldiers and
their white tents, conspicuous at a considerable distance,











