266 Ram M. ASSURE Trade.



strange feature in the landscape; and sandstone now gives place to
masses of granite on the banks and in the channel of the stream.
Farther towards the S. this rock forms the natural fortress known
as the first cataract, which correlate of innumerable slide of dark
parti-coloured granite, among which the Nile pursues its rapid
course towards Egypt by means of many narrow channels.

201/2 M. (5380 M. from Cairo) Arcade.

When the stream is low the steamers are compelled to anchor below
Anemia, but at other times they touch near the hazun Dhahahiyehs anchor
at various points, sometimes beside the island of Elephantine opposite,
_ This mail-steamers remain here from Sun. or Wed. morning till Mon.
or Thurs. afternoon at 3 .m. - the three-weeks steamer halts 2 days (Sun
and Man) for a visit to sense and mm, and the four-weeks steamer
251 am Those }, who wish to proceed to dei fialfah (p.299) must
quit the steamer on Mon. morning and take the train to Shellal While).
- In 18% a dhahabiyeh belonging to Messrs. Cook and Son, near the
station, provided board and lodging for it. per day.

decode, Coptic Soon (Arabic, with the article, Al-Sudu, Assume),
the steamboat terminus for the lower Nile, with a post and telegraph
office, lies on the E. bank, partly on the plain and partly on a hill,
in N. lat, 240 ly 30". The fertile strip here is narrow, but supports
numerous date-palms, the fruit of which still enjoys a high reputation. The native inhabitants have increased under the British
occupation to about 10,000; but that number is only a fraction of
its former population, when according to Arabian authors, no less
than 20,000 died of the plague at one time. Some of the houses
are elegant, but the mosques do not repay a visit. The howling
dervishes have a house here in which they meet on Fridays for
prayer. A considerable trade is carried on in the products of the
dean and Abyssinia, brought hither on camels, and shipped northwards by the Nile to Keneh, Assifit, or Cairo. Among the chief on »
ports are ostrich feathers, ivory, india-rubber, sauna, tamarinds,
war, skins, horns, and dried dates. The steamers and dhahabiyehs
are here boarded by negroes, Nubians, and handsome Beduins,
with artistically dressed curly hair, who offer for sale ostrich feathers
and fans, silver rings and armlets, ivory hoops, weapons from Gene
tral Africa, small monkeys, emulate, beautiful basket-work, and
aprons of leather fringe, the costume of the women of the SMU,
which they oddly call Wadama Nubia'. Grey and black ostrich
feathers are comparatively cheap ('8 piastres am 2 it. each), lag"
and perfect white feathers cost 10- » 20 fr. apiece and upward. Travellers. who desire to buy in quantity should betake themselves to
one of the wholesale dealers in. the town. The bazaar is like the
bazaars of all Nile towns, but is distinguished for its excellent local
pottery of great beauty of form. Candles, porter, lie, and even
tolerable Dutch cigars may be obtained at a Turkish'bakkal'. « Copper money is, seriously enough, accepted very unwillingly in
heroin and the rest of Noble; the traveller should provide himself
beforehand with silver piastres.





