History. seems. 26.; Route. 267

morons. The ancient Egyptian name of the town of scenes as San



a ._
, that of the whole cataract-district was Senna, 6.

The name Sun means'the place affording an opening or entrance', because
here the threshold of Egypt was crossed. The name seldom occurs in
hieroglyphic inscriptions, because the metropolis or chief town of the
name to which Sun belonged, was Elephantine, on the island of that
name. The place, however, is very ancient, for even under the am Dym,
the granite required by the builders of Lower Egypt was furnished by the
quarries in its neighbourhood. In later times the city of the cataracts
was frequently referred to by Greek and Roman writers under the name
of Syene. It acquired special fame on account of its well (see below),
and as the lace of banishment of Juvenal in his old age.

' The Wag of Syene, in which there was no shadow at midday, and which
thus seemed to prove that Syene was situated under the tropic, has (lieu r
geared. The report of its existence led the learned Athenian Eratosthenes (27 198313.), attached to the Museum at Alexandria, to the discovery of the
method of measuring the size of the earth that is still employed.'He
selected the are of the earth between Alexandria and Syene (decade) on
me Nils, of which place he assumed that it was in the same meridian.
Since he knew that the midday sun at the summer solstice cast no shadow
within a radius of 300 stadia from Syene, and that in Alexandria at the
same time the angle determined by the shadow of the sun-gunmen was
equal to one-fiftieth of a circle, be correctly concluded that the distance
between Alexandria and Syene must equal the fiftieth part of a meridian
circle, or T' 12% } The distance from Alexandria to Syene was taken by
Eratosthcnes simply at the 501mm eolimate at won mam equal to
59331. (Lepsius) or 518 M. (ultsch), Puck". Parallel. ~---- A glance at the map
shows that Assuiin no longer lies under the tropic of Cancer, but somewhat
to the N. of it, so that no shadowless well can exist there at present;
but it has been calculated that in the ith cent. B.C. Syene actually lay
exactly under the tropic, whence we may gather that the Egyptians must
have noticed the shadowless well long before Eratosthenes and must have
known the true situation of the tropic.

Juvenal was still living under Hadrian; but it is not quite certain
whether, as is usually assumed, he was sent to Egypt by Domitian The
rhetorician and satirist, while living in Rome, had fiercely attacked the
actor Paris, who was a court-favourite, and he was on that account removed
from the capital. He was not exactly banished but appointed prefect of
the garrison at Syene, on the most remote frontier of the empire. His
trenchant muse found abundant material on the banks of the Nile. His
15th Satire describes the contest between the inhabitants of Ombos and
Tentyra (Denderah) at a festival at Koptos. The two hostile names, whom
he erroneously calls neighbours CvieMois0, had long cherished a mutual
enmity on account of the gods they worship red. At Tentyra the crocodile
was persecuted, while it was held sacred at entyra for the sake of Sebek
who was worshipped there. Thus arose a strife resembling that mentioned
on p. 7. The Tentyritians even slew a man of (lichen and devoured him.
Juvenal is indignant, and indicates that his residence on the Nile had by
no means taught him to love the Egyptians. If he composed the 15th
satire at Syene, that town has the honour of being the birth-place of the
following fine verses:
'That nature gave the now man a feeling heart"

'She proves herself, by giving him tears 1"

'This is the noblest part of all human nature'.
The lat, Same, in which Egypt is again mentioned, seems to be errOneously ascribed to Juvenal. Doubts also attach to the authenticity of a
frequently quoted edict of the emperor Diocletian, ordering the Christian



' 30") is only 7" (Y 30".





