268 Route 26, ASSURNL Jrseerip $ iorw.

churches on the Nile as far as Syene to be torn down and the temples to
be restored.

The place suffered greatly at the hands of the Blemmyes, but be »
came the seat of a Christian bishop, and appears to have rapidly regained
its prosperity under the Khan Len Afrimmm (14th cent.) saw here some
towers of unusual height, which can only be regarded as the pylons of
some large temple, as they were named Barbe by the natives, a name
easily traced from the Egyptian'pa erps' tie. the temple.

After the close of the 12th cent. Assndn suffered still more severely
from the incursions of plundering Arab tribes, finally put a stop to by a
Turkish garrison stationed here by the sultan Selim, after the conquest
of Egypt in 1517. Many of the present Ainhabitants claim descent from
these Turks.

To the S. and N. of the landing-place, at which various craft
are always lying, two edifices project into the river. One of these
is a ruined Arabian fort, the other a ruined building, probably a
bath, for which stones of earlier buildings have been used, and
dating more probably from the Khalifs than from Roman times.
The upper part of the town presents large clay walls with few windows towards the stream; the lower part is screened by palm--groves, through whose green foliage gleam the outlines of rugs,
heaps of rubbish, a dark gray clay wall, and a pure white minaret.
Huge granite cliffs rise from the stream. To the W. lies the green
and fertile island of Elephantine, shaped like the head of a lance,
and still farther to the W., on the Libyan bank, rises a ruined Arab
castle, projecting darkly from the yellow sand-slopes of the range
of hills across which the telegraph-wires are conducted. To the E.
the prospect is bounded by the Arabian hills, in which, more to
the S., are some huge empty graves of saints. Everywhere the eye
finds rest. The Nile, with its divided channel, appears small; but
it still preserves its venerable aspect, for everywhere, even on the
locks by the stream, are inscriptions and numerous memorials of
the grand old times, especially as we look towards the island.

In Antiquities, Asscin is not very rich. Besides the small
Ptolemaic Temple beside the land-route to Phila (p. 274), only
a few Rock Inscriptions on the river-bank call for mention.+ One
dates from Rameren of the 6th Dym; several from the 12th Dyn.,
from Usertesen 1., from the Ma yes: of Amenemha IL coinciding
with the 3rd year of his adopted successor Usertesen 1.1., and one
from the 5th year of the same king, In both the latter a certain
Mentuhotep is mentioned. There is also a stale of the 10th year of
Usertesen III. and one with the name Neferhotep, of the 13th Dynasty. Another important stole, dating from the first year of Tut
mes H. (O 6. y), contains a detailed report of the conquest



, The remains of two other temples are described in the Description
do l'Egypte, but both have now disappeared. One was a tetrastyle Portico, the other a Hail, dedicated by the emperor News to the god: of
Assam, Khnum, Annke, and Nephthys, and to Osiris isis, sum,
and Esther. Champollion saw the latter in 1829.





