Tombs. Assam. 26. Route. 269

of some rebellious S. tribes in the land of Knsh and the district
of Kenes. Some inscriptions of a certain Senmut before liaison
and her daughter Raneforu record the quarrying and despatch of
two large obelisks; another is from the 9th year of Seti L; others
are by a bios (Moses) under Merenptah L; and another is by a certain
Seti, a royal son of Kush and president of the gold-land of Siptah,
and his minister Bai.

In 1885-86 some important Tombs of the 6th and 12th Dyn.
were opened on the hills ('Mount Grcnfcll') lying to the W. opposite Assuin, first by Mustafah Shahir, British consular agent st, and then by Major-general Sir F. Grcnfell. They lie about
1/4 hr. to the N. of the W. convent (Dtr er-srhar6hselsj. We cross
the river in the small boat and land at a ruined stone quay, whence
an ancient staircase, hewn in the rock, ascends for about 150 n.,
flanked on either side by a wall of more recent date. The stairs
are in three flights, from the top of each of which inclined planes
lead towards the tombs, evidently intended for the transport of the
sarcophagi. At the summit of the staircase is a platform with
tombs of the 6th and 12th Dynasties.+ Tomb No. M, with a curious
door placed one-third up the height of another door, belongs to a

courtnofflcial named Saben, who flourished under tie,
[ W
farkam Pepi 11. (6th Dyno and was employed on the pyramid of

that king Men-ankh (see Plan Vol I, p. 378).

©......
The tomb consists of an oblong hall (69 ft by'26 ft), with a coiling supported by M square pillars Close to the entrance, beside
the first pillar on the right, is the standing figure of Saben, with
red complexion and black hair. On the back-wall the deceased
appears spearing fish from a boat, with a companion engaged in
catching birds that rise from a bed of papyrus-plants. To the left
is a passage, leading to a winding mummy-shaft On the left side
of this tomb, and not separated from it by any partition wall, lies

Tomb. No 25, belonging to a certain Mekhn (: _ This

_
contains eighteen columns in three rows, resembling the go-called
proto-Dorie columns in the tombs at gBenihasan (p 12) Between the first two rows stands a square stone, probably used as an
altar. To the right of the entrance are a few paintings. Mekhu
leans upon a staff, being perhaps lame, while offerings are presented to him (one of his sons was also named Mek'hn, his wife
Aha was a priestess of Hacker, while another son, called Seben, was
possibly the owner of tomb 26). In the adjoining paintings Melrhu
is shown making an offering himself and ploughing with oxen and







t eaeritred by Badge in the Proceedings of the See. for Bibi Arch
for November 188 and by Boun'am in the Recueil X, p 181





