270 Route 26. scenic.

reaping. Good representations of Egyptian donkeys. From the
point where the two tombs touch, another passage leads to a.
mummy-shaft, at the back of which is a square chamber.
Climbing up to the right from this double tomb we find several
other tombs, most of which have no inscriptions. One belongs to

TAO! Hell-ob, son of Apt and of Penatmci. A four-whine mu

scription over the entrance mentions festivals of the dead
Another important tomb is No 31, belonging to Beanba
keamekht.

to have been a high official under Amenemha L It seems also to
be the sepulchre of his son ('3) Si Renpnt (son of Satihotep), whose
portrait is of frequent occurrence in this tomb and who is named
commander of the light troops in the S. frontier districts. Beyond
a narrow passage follows a hall with 6 square columns, and then
another passage with three recesses on each side, the first on the
left containing a bearded figure of OsirisV At the end of the second
passage is a small chamber with four columns, whence a long
passage leads to the right to a quadruple shaft

Farther on, at the top of another ascent, is a tomb, named after
the Prince of Naples who was present at its opening, and belonging to Baikhcnu, a priest at the pyramid of Pepi H (p. 269). Then
the large sepulchrec of K hams and secures. Finally on the N. side
of the same hill is the interesting tomb (No. 32) of another Bi
Kanpur (son of Term), who served under User% sAm L, and was
grandfather or great-grandfather of the above-named Si Ream
through his daughter Satihotep. To the right and left of the entrance are some half--defaced inscriptions. The antechamber has
seven pillars, on one of which (to the right) reference is made to
a campaign undertaken by the king for the subjection of a hostile
tribe Wat'0. Another important inscription (unfortunately damaged), over the entrance to the rock-atomic proper, treats of the
influential position enjoyed by Si Renput under the king and in
the campaign against Kush (Ethiopia). To the left scenes of fishspearing and fowling, and cattle. In the interior are a small tetrastyle ball, a long passage, and then another tetrastyle hall, at the
back of which is a recess. We may descend direct from this tomb
to the bank of the river.

Among the other Points to be visited hence are'
the small Temple of the Ptolemiee, the old Cemeteries, and tho Quarries on the way to Philae.








