271
27. The Island of Elephantine.

This island is reached by small boat in a few minutes from the landingplace. Cook's tourists are first transported in comfortable boats to Elephantine and then to the bazaar at Assails (small gratuity). A row round
the island is recommended "biz). The entire visit takes barely an hour.

Etephontine was a place of great sanctity from a very early period among the ancient Egyptians. It formed a name by itself

A,
with a capital, named like the entire island, j g) was the Egyptian for elephant, so that Elephantine

is merely the Great translation of a native name. The Arabs call
it simply Gesireb, he. island, or Gesiret Anchors; and it is also said
to be named etuZdhir or'the blooming'. Though the vegetation is
luxuriant in many spots, the writer never heard the last-given name

applied to it.

The Egyptian priests described the Source of the Nile as a mystery,
that would only be revealed to the soul at the twelfth gate of the underworld; yet at the same time, they pointed out the'symbolical sources of
the Nile', so to speak, in the eddies among the rocks of the cataract
eh C)
to the S. of Elephantine. They named these

,, O :3 o I l l
m. the Karts or sources of Elephantine. Herodotus heard of these from
a scribe in the treasury of the temple of Album at Sale. The Helical »:
nassian thought that the priest was but jesting when he told him that
between Syene and Elephantine lay two lofty peaked mountains, Krophi
and Mophi, from the midst of which gushed the bottomless sources of the
Nile, one half of which flowed to the N. to Egypt, the other half m However foolish this opinion, which Seneca also reports,
may appear, it was not pure invention, for the monuments inform us that
the people were really taught to believe that the Egyptian Nile had his
abode among the At', to the S. of Elephantine. Some located it to the
N. of the island of Bigeh-Senem (p. 297). Khnum, the god of cataracts,
was revered before all other gong on this island; and next to him ranked
Sati (a form of Isis--Sothis), because the beginning of the inundation calm
aided with the early rising of this constellation, and the cataract may be
regarded as the threshold of the swollen Nile entering Egypt.

In the year 1822 Mohammad'Ali, in order to build a palace for
himself at Aswan, caused the destruction of the Temple of Khnum,
built under Amenhotep m, of the 18. Dyn. near the S. and of the
island, and also of a smaller Temple of Tutmss 111., lying more to
the N.W., and known as the N. temple. Travellers pass the latter
on their way to the city, in whose N. outskirts it lay. The savants
of the French Expedition saw this temple before its destruction and
published views of it. Now all that is to be seen on the island are
some huge heaps of ruins, a granite doorway of the time of Alanndet L, and a granite Statue of Merenptah 1. Blocks of stone and
sculptured fragments lie around.

The inhabitants of the' two villages on the island, many of whom
understand nothing but Nubian, offer coins, small anti cities (many imitations), and fragments of pottery with inscriptions ostraca) for sale.
The last-named are sometimes valuable; the inscriptions arm th








