272 Route 27. ELEPHANTINE.

ink in Demotic, Greek, or Coptic characters. A roll containing poems by
Homer was also discovered here.

By far the most interesting object on the island is the Milometer, on the W. side facing Assuan, known to the Arabs as
Mityds. The learned court-astronomer of the Khedive, Mahmdd
Bey, maimed this well-preserved monument to use in 1870. Strobe
gives the following excellent description, which is interesting to
compare with the monument as it now exists.'The Nilometer is a
well built of regular hewn stones, on the bank of the Nile, in which
is recorded the rise of the stream, not only the maximum but also
the minimum and average rise, for the water in the well rises and
falls with the stream. On the side of the well am marka, .measuring the complete rise of the water and all the other degrees of its
rising. These are observed and published for general information'.
Readers are referred to our account of the Mihyis at Cairo (Vol. L,
p. 319). The Nilometer at Elephantine consists of a narrow roofless
chamber, connected with the stream, and is reached by 52 steps in
6 flights. The lowest landing is reckoned as 4 Arabian 6115 or about
7 ft. above the lowest water level gthe dir'e or Arabian all being
equal to 54 centimetres or about 2 1/3 inches). Above that point
13 oils are marked, so that the highest point marked is 30 ft.
(1'? Arab. ens) above the minimum water-level. Each all is divided
on the side of the well into 8 parts and 24 kirat. The 13 old Egyptian oils, each divided into 7 s an: and 28 fingers, have a total
length of 6,395 metres (about 0 fro, from which Mahmihl Bey
obtained 53 centimetres as the equivalent for an all instead of
the previously accepted 521/2 centimetres. The watcrnleyel duo-w
mates actually between the top of the first all and the seventeenth,
is. has a range at Assudn of 16 oils of 54 centimetres each. The
old and new marks are placed on every third step. From the surface of the water upwards are it marks, of which, however, only
the half are necessary, as the Nile no longer rises higher.

Close beside the river, farther to the N., lies a massive Roman
Structure, built of hewn blocks from earlier edifices. Many of
these blocks are covered with inscriptions of different dates, including fragmentary lists of offerings and festival calendars and
a portion of a Nilemetcr. The rock-inscriptions close to the stream
should also be noticed. They include inscription! by Neferkara
(Pepi), Unas, Antef as, with one by Amenemha on the other side.

The higher parts of the island command a fine'View of the
black and brown, rough and smooth rocks of the cataract, among
which the Nils, split up into many small branches, sometimes
dashes in foaming energy, sometimes flows in ttnrttfr1od calmness.





