a.. 273
28. From Amman to Philae.

a. Passage of the First Cataract.

The First Cataract (Arab. Shelidl, from the earlier form Djéndal) lies
between Assudn and mum. It must be passed by all who desire to
proceed in their own dhahabiyeh to thi Iialfah and the second cataract.
When the river is high the passage is putts without danger, and though
it is more difficult at later periods 0 the year, nothing more serious
need be feared than some slight damage to the boat. A considerable amount
of time, however, is consumed by the passage, except under favourable
circumstances and when the river is at its highest. Including the necessary
preparations, 2-3 days must be set aside for the passage; and a carefully
drawnaup contract (p. XXII) will be found here especially useful. Travellers who have previously arranged with their dragoman to be conveyed to and from dei Halfah for a fixed sum including the passage of
the cataract, will come oil" best. Those who have no such arrangement
must come to terms with one of the shékhs of the Shelldl or chiefs of the
cataracts. With a reliable dragoman the matter may be "ranged in ten
minutes but otherwise (too frequently the case) difficulties are sure to
arise. The boat will be objects to as too high, too weak, or two large,
the water will be described as too low, or the wind (which must certainly
be taken into the calculation) as too gentle; but none of these objections
should be listened to, if the dhahabiyeh has been originally hired to
ascend beyond the cataract. Energy and bakshish will overcome difficulties.
If the dragoman prove too recalcitrant, the traveller should threaten to
proceed to Widi lialfah by camel or by a dhahabiyeh from Philse, and to

ring an action for damages against the dragoman on his return to Cairo.
That will generally produce an effect; but the action for damages should
not, in the interest of future travellers, be allowed to remain an empty
threat. Dhahabiyehs may be hired above the cataract, but they are inferior and dear. The cost of ascending the rapids varies from A m G.,
according to the size of the boat, to which a bakshish of at least 2-31. must
be added. This amount of bakshish must be paid because as many as
50 or 50, or even, when the vessel is large and the water low, lay men
are required to tow a dhahab'iyeh up the rapids. Travellers may remain
on board during the operation if they choose, but as the passage takes
several hours, they lose much time.

Since the construction of the railway from Assets. to Philsc, and
owing to the disturbances caused by the Buddies, the journey between
the cataracts is now very seldom made by dhahab'iyeh; and the ascent of
the rapids by a passenger-about is quite exceptional.

The descent of the foaming rapids is much more interesting. Those
who are very cautious may perhaps cause their more precious possessions
to be transported past the cataract by land; but serious accidents almost
never occur, though the wreck » of some dhahabiyehs on the banks prove
that the descent is not absolutely without danger. An excellent view of the
passage may be obtained from a rock on the bank (Bah ssh-Shelldl, p. 279 }

Passengers by Cook's acumen are conveyed down the rapids to
Assudn in a rowing-boat for is. a head, an interesting trip, not wholly
devoid of danger. A halt is made before the chief rapid, in order to view
the natives descending it on trunks of trees. As usual the visitor is
harassed by demands for bakshish. The voyage is then continued through
smaller channels, and at dangerous points, the boat is secured by ropes.
See description of a trip of this kind on p. 279.

The dhahabiyeh ascends in untroublcd water as far as the island
of Sahel. There it is surrounded by'thc dark, sinewy, and generally
most symmetrical forms of the Arabs who are to tow it through the
rapids. Some some on board under the direction of a shekh, while
others remain on the bank. At first the dhahabiyeh passes tha beginning of the rapids comparatively easily, but bypassed b apes

BAEDEKEB'S Upper Egypt.'c"'i',' "c'"'"'"" )""""') )'"') -"'"









