274 Route 28. FIRST CATARACT. From. Asses-a

are fastened to the mast, and the severe struggle with the descending current begins. Some haul on the ropes from the bank, others
guide the course of the vessel with poles from on board, and others
in the water keep it upright or word it "from striking on sharp
rocks in the river-bed. Old man, young men, and boys rival each
other in the most exhausting activity, that seems almost frantic,
from its never-ceasing accompaniment of shouts, cries, and chants.
Every saint in the calendar is invoked, especially the beneficent
Sa'id, who is believed to render especially Birective aid in sudden
dangers. At the most difficult point, the Bab el-chif o. 278)
boys, for a small fee, will plunge head-first into the stream, to
reappear astride pieces of wood below the boiling surf, through
which they swim with marvellous skill. If the work is not accomw
plished before sun-sot, it is left unfinished till next morning. m
It may be remarked that the Egyptian government contemplates
widening the channel and introducing fixed regulations for the
passage. - The time occupied in taking the dhahabiyeh through the
rapids may be advantageously turned to account by the traveller by
first inspecting the cataract from the bank and then, by proceeding
by land to Philae, where he should pitch his tent or take up his
abode in the Osiris room (p. 295 }. The most necessary articles can
easily be transported through the rapids by a few of the sailors
in the small boat. The dragoman will arrange the new household
with the assistance of the cook and the campuservent. A. few days
spent at Phila, especially at full moon, will not easily be forgotten.
wit is not advisable to bring the dhahabiyeh as far as the island
of son and to visit Philae thence, because there are no donkeys
to be there obtained.

b. From Assets to Ems by land.

Railway in 1/2 1m, fare 5 puma; one train daily (1891) la Shelli!
at 8.30 a.m., returning at 11 mm. m- The Ride to Philm takes iilr ht;
excellent donkeys at the landingaplace. Rich inhabitants of Assnfin spend
large sums upon their riding-asses; spirited Abyssinian donkeys, it they
are also handsome, cost from tot. upwards. - The inspection of the objects of interest of Acacia occupies 34 hrs.

The route leads past the Post Office into the town, then turns to the
right (leaving the Bazaar on the left) and follows the telegraph-wires
across a (5 min.) bridge over the railway to Philae (Shellal). The Hole »
rants Temple lies a few minutes to the left, below (see below). Thence we
proceed straight on to the Mohammedan Tombs, passing on the way the
graves of an Austrian and of a sailor of the British ship Monarch' (Dawes
d. win. The Quarries are reached from the Ptolemaic temple by continuing straight on for a few minutes, then turning abruptly into the
desert path, which soon brings us in sight of tall blocks of stone, behind
which is the - (p, 276). The obelisk lien 10 min. to the right of the
abovevmentioned European graves.

The attentive observer will notice many blocks and slabs with
hieroglyphic inscriptions built Into this home: of Assi. in me








