m mm. ASSURE 28, Route. 275

station also there is a block of granite with the name ofTutmes 11L,
possibly dating from a temple at Syene, on which Khnum, lord of Kebu

, within Aim (Elephantine) is named. Several



attractive houses, one belonging to a wealthy Jaw, form a kind of
suburb here

To the left of the road lies the small TEMPLE, founded by Ptolemy HI. Euergetes and adorned by Ptolemy IV. Philopator, but
never entirely completed. On the left of the Facade is Euergetes L
and his wife Berenice IL, before Isis in Sun (Syene). Isis is named
eonductress of the soldiers, because the frontier-town and its neighbourhood were strongly garrisoned from very early times as well as
under the Romans. (Under the Romans the Cohors Quinta Suenenslum was stationed at Contra here, the Cohors Santa Saginarum in
the Castro Lapidariomm, on the E. bank to the S. of Syene, the
Whore Prime Felix Theodosiana on Elephantine, and the Legio
Prime Maximiana on Pure.) Next appears Ptulmis, son of Error-gates, otherwise Philopator, before Khnum, Sati, and Anuke, who
each wears his special hsad-drese, On the right side of the facade is
Euergetes 1., before Sebek and Rather, and offering incense before
Osiris Unnofer (the good), Isis, and the child Horus.

On the inner sides of the two doors leading to the anteohamber
with its two square columns, and on the inner side of the door to
the adytum, are inscribed stirring Hymns to Isis--Sothis, to whom
apparently the little temple was dedicated. To the left, on the latter door, are my. the words:'Thou hurlest forth (sati) the Ni e.



"
that he may fertilize the land in thy name of Sothis, thou embracest (ank) the fields to make them fertile in thy name of Ankht.
All beings on earth exist through time, through thy name of Ankht
('the living)

Unusually thick pillars in the first and largest chamber of the
temple support an Weak abet }, upon which rests a broad but flat
architrave. Completed inscriptions are to be found only on the
partition-wall between the sanctuary and the preceding hall, on the
entrance door, and at a few points on the inner walls.

Near the temple is I "ue-ia-Fra of the time of Khn-en-aten. To
the left appears the sculptor Men, before a sitting figure of Amenhotep m.
perhaps carved by himself, to the right is a son of Men named Bet, making an offering. Belt is also a master-sculptor of the sun, whose beams
radiate in the form of hands. The cartouches of Khu-en-aten are defaced.

2. THE ARAB CEMETERIES.

A brief this brings us to an immense number of Arab graves,
lying in the midst of the desert, each marked by a rectangle of
unhewn stones, and a slab bearing an engraved inscription. Many
are covered with a poll of yellow sand. The earliest of the hundreds
of Epitaphs exhibit the venerable Cutie character and date mostly
from the 9th and 10th cent AND A few are older. and; In H

18*








