276 Route 28. Assoin. From Amos

more recent. The inscriptions usually give the name of the deceased
and the date of death. Texts from the Karin are not uncommon,
in spite of the Prophet's express command that the name of God and
passages from the Kor'an should never be placed upon tombstones.
The tombs of the richer dead are small domed erections. On the
summit of the hill to the right of the road are some large mosquelike Cenotaphs, dedicated to famous saints, such as the Shékh Mahu
mild, the Shiikh'All, our lady (sine) Zeinab, eta, whose memory
is celebrated by festivals on their birthdays, etc.

3. TILE vams (Arabic Maudie).

About 1/4 hr. beyond Assuan we quit the road and turn to the
E. (left). In a few minutes more we reach the verge of a hill, on
which blocks of granite are scattered both singly and in heaps. A
moderately lofty slid beyond shows manifold traces of the industry
of the ancient builders, who, from the erection of the pyramids to
the time of the Ptolemios, drew their supplies of granite from the
quarries of Syene. Almost all the granite pillars, columns, archivtrayes, roof-slabs, obelisks, and statues that we have hitherto seen
in Egypt, hail from this spot.

Syenite owes its name to the early Greek form of the name of Aswan
(Erase), although the stone here found is far too poor in hornblende to
be reckoned true syenite at all.+ Hormone describes it as follows: The granite, which interrupts the sandstone at the cataracts of heroin,
is of a reddish hue, caused by bright rose-coloured orthoclase. It contains a large proportion of translucent quartz, yellow, brownish, pink, and
black mica, and only a little hornblende. Huge coarse-grained masses of
this composition are here found and also hard tine-grained masses, containing much red felspar, but little quartz and very little mica. Veins
also own rich in dark mica and greenish oligoclase, and containing a
little pinite; and finally veins of a dark green diorite, in which the proportion of hornblende is much greater than that of albite'. The glaze
on the rocks of the cataracts is noticed on p. 279.

The diligent hands of the stone- « cutters of the Pharaohs have left
distinct traces behind them. The method in which the blocks were
quarried in tiers may still be distinctly seen on a cliff facing the
N, about 8mim to the NE. of the town. The skill with which huge
masses were handled and detached without injury from the cliff to
which they belonged, is absolutely marvellous. The certainty of the
process adopted is amply vouched for by the fact that obelisks were
completely finished on three sides before they were finally detached



t This curious fact is explained by Prof. Zirkel a. mum, The term
swam, which mum in Pliny, was first employed in a scientific sense
by Werner in 1788, who applied it to the characteristic stone formed of
orthoclase felspar and black hornblende, found in the Plauensche Grand,
m Sammy. Thenceforth that mineral was accepted as the typical syenite.
Wed subsequently proved that the stone quarried at Syene was not
syenite at all, he. that its formation was quite different from that of the
rocks in the Plaurxnsche Grand. When Rosier-e discovered true syenite on
Mount Sinai he proposed to alter its name slightly and to call it Steam,
a suggestion, however, which has never been adopted.








