to Phite. ASSURN. 28. Route. 277

them their native rock, this final operation being probably accomplished with the aid of wet wedges. Such an Obelisk, still attached
to the rock, may be seen about 1/2 M. to the S. of the town and
about as far to the E. of the Nile. It is not easily found, as it is
frequently more than ham-covered with sand. At its broadest part
this obelisk measures 103/2 ft; its length is 92 ft. (72 ft. out out),
not reckoning the pyramidal top, which has already been hewn. The
economy of material on the part of the stone-cutters is noteworthy.
In the quarry near the road and visited by all travellers, is a huge
Block of Rock, from which the mason has begun to how both a
roofing-slab and a column. Here we clearly perceive that the ancients
well understood how to disintegrate the granite with borers and to
split it with wedges. Numerous holes were made in a fixed line
(probably with the help of draw-boring), the damp wooden wedges
were driven in, and in this manner tolerably even fractures were ohm

tained. The art of splitting the stone by heat was also understood.

The Chapel transported from Elephantine (he. herein) to Sun by
Aahmes (26th Dyn.) was especially celebrated, and is mentioned by Ilerodotus ar, 175). It consisted of a single block and its tram; art occupied
2000 men for 3 yam, x: is said to have been 21 ells long, a broad. and
8 high, outside measurement; and 1551., am long, 12 broad, and 5 high,
inside measurement. It had to remain outside the temple at Sale, on
account of its size and weight. Still more striking, in point of weight at
least, were the Blame "Ram ), and a stone Chapel, seen by Herodotus (I, 155) at gun The
latter was cubical in form and measured 40 ells each way; and it has
been estimated that its weight must have been about 7000 shipping-tons,
or more than twice the burden of a large East Indiaman.

4. THE ANCIENT ROAD AND THE BRICK WALL.

We turn to the right (W) from the quarries and follow the broad
sandy road leading S. to Philae. The desert has a wonderful pre »
serving virtue If the road along which the traveller now rides were
practicable for carriages, Strabo's description would still fit it in
every point.'We drove', writes the ancient geographer,'from Syene
(Assuhn) to Philae, through a very flat plain about 50 stadia long.
At many points all along the road, and on both sides, we saw the
rounded, smooth, and almost conical blocks of dark, hard rock, resembling Hermes--towers, from which mortars are made. Smaller
blocks lie upon larger ones, and support others in their turn; here
and there were isolated Nous', eta, To this we need only add
that pious pilgrims and wayfarers have chiselled their Names and
short Inscriptions on many of the above-mentioned blocks. Princes,
dignified priests, and warriors, have travelled this way, as far back
as the times of the Amenemhas and Usertesens. Down to a late
period pilgrims were in the habit of placing inscriptions on these
stones, accompanied with the representation of the soles of the feet.

Among the more noteworthy of these Inscriptions are a short one of

the fourth year of Usertesen l. (.





