278 Route 28. stein ESH~SHELL3L From Arcades

fifth year of Amenhotep 111., in which the king is likened to a fierce lion
that seizes the Kushites in his claws. A Were also, of the second year of
Ramses the Great, sham! on the left Amman and on the right Khnum
presenting the shapes }; or sword of victory to the king, who grasps a negro

y the hair Many other ancient reliefs and inscriptions will be found by
the careful seeker, both along this road and beside the Nile in the direction of and beside Assuan'

Br-tmd-by we perceive considerable fragments of a high Brick
Wall, built to protect the road from the attacks of the Blemmyes
o. 302) and also perhaps from the shifting sand Strabo, curiously
enough, does not mention it. It first appears to the right (W.) of the
road, crosses it twice, remains then on the E. side, and ends on the tut
bank opposite Phile. It is 6 ft. broad and at some places 13 ft. high.

As this curious erection is almost entirely destroyed or covered
with sand in the neighbourhood of hernia, and as there are also
other points of interest on the land-route to Phila, (the inscriptions
are most numerous near the island), no one who has a reasonable
time to devote to the region of the first cataract, should fail to
traverse this route once at least. The view of Phila, as the traveller
approaches the end of his journey, will never be forgotten.

c. Route partly through tho Dawn partly beside the Cataract.
This route is recommended to those who have arrived by steamer
and have time to go to Phila, and back once only. The return to
Assuin is usually made (when there is moonlight invariably) after
sunset, in which case, however, the traveller follows the desertroute all the way and sees nothing of the cataract. The rocky nature
of the river-bank tandem it impossible to skirt the stream during
the first half of the distance from Ammtm t0 Phila, After visiting
the quarries, therefore, we follow the above-described desert-route
for about 1/2 hr. towards the s, then enter a path diverging to the
right (W,), which brings us in about an hour after quitting As »
suin to the rocky bank of the river, whose hoarse you is heard for
some time before. Hence we are conducted to the rocks known
as the sum ssh-Shell", or'gates of the cataracts', that with the
largest fall being known as Bdh cl-v-Kebt'r or'grest gate'. Here we
may be fortunate enough to see a boat guided through the rapids;
but in any case there are always naked young Nubians ready to
plunge into the river and allow themselves to be carried down by
the foaming stream, either astride of a tree-tmnk or floating unm
supported in the water, in the manner described long ago by Strobe.
The air of course resounds with sheets and requests for bakshish.
Those who expect to see a cascade like the falls of the Rhine at
Schaffhausen will be disappointed. The foaming and impetuous
stream makes noise enough as it dashes through its rocky bed, but
there is nothing here in the shape of a regular waterfall. Yet all

t These have been copied by Minder: Patric and organ and published
by the former in his'Sesson in Egypt." (1888).





