w Philae. FIRST CATARACT, 28. Route. 279

the same, especially when one beholds the placid surface of the
river to the S. of Phila, one can sympathize with the question of
the linenuolad Achereus in Lucan:'Who would have supposed that
thou, Oh gently-flowing Nile, wouldst burst forth with violent
whirlpools into such wild rage? When the river is high all the
rocks in the bed of the stream are under water; but in February
and March even the smaller rocks are visible. Inscriptions are found
on many of these, and on all the cataract-islands, twenty in number.
The smooth glaze, like a dark enamel, which covers the granite »
rocks between this point and Philae will not escape notice.

A similar ed'ect was noticed by Alexander van Humboldt M the
cataract: of the Orinoco.'The granite of Assudn', says R... Hartmann,
'like that at the southern cataracts, am, is distinguished by the remarkably rounded shape of the blocks. These have surfaces as smooth as
glass, and are of a black hue, glistening in the sun, like the flat surface
of a well-used smoothingdron. The almost spherical shape seems to be
due to the attrition of the detritus washed down by the stream. The
dark colour, which only penetrates a few lines, as is easily seen in detached fragments, is mused by protoxide of iron according to Russegger,
or by silica according to Delesse, precipitated on the stone by the Nile-water'.

A few yards to the S. of the cataract lie the pleasant villages
of Mahhdah and Shelled, shaded by palms and sycamores. in Mawhidah huge piles of dried dates lie in the open air, brought hither
from Nubia for transport to Egypt. At this point begins the passage
of the rapids downstream; and boats (or dhahahiyehs for large parties) may be hired here, if desired, for the safe voyage to Phila
through a picturesque rocky landscape. A bargain should be struck
before the boat is entered. A small boat costs 10 piastres by tariff;
a dhahahiyeh not less than 10 fr. The boatmen demand much larger

sums at first.

Dnsennr or run Caransor m A SMALL BOAT, This expedition can
hardly be recommended. for even when the river is full it is not unuattended with danger. ti. Brugsch and Eben both accomplished it. The
latter records that he looks back upon the experience not without pleasure,
especially on account of the extraordinary skill and presence of mind of
the cataract--reds who amend, He describes the trip as follows.'I had
two of our own sailors on board, one able-bodied, the other a Nubian
little more than a boy. -The old cataract-re'is was at the helm. The
rear of the cataract was heard beyond the village or Shams, and became
louder every minute as we proceeded. The me )" and stones in the riverbed are reddish brown, but wherever they have been washed by the
stream and then dried by the scorching sun of this latitude, they glisten
like the black surface of an evaporating pond. Behind and before, to
the right and left, above and below, I saw nothing but rocks, little pools,
and the blue sky; while my sense of hearing was as though spell-hound by
the roar of me waking. Which as soon as the heel of the boat approached
the rapids proper, lifted up their voice as loud as surf lashing against a
rocky coast in a storm. Then followed some minutes of me most intense
exertion for the crew, who cheered and encouraged themselves by continual invocations to helpful saints, especially to the holy Said, the
rescuer from sudden dangers. With each stroke of the ears broke forth
a'ya Said." (0 Said) or'ya Mobdrnrned' or'God is gracious"; while the
arms wielding the ears dared not relax their strength, at it was essential
to keep in the middle of the rapids in order to avoid being hurled against
the rocks. The Arab, who guided the boat, was a einew old man over






