280 Route 28. FIRST CATARACT.

sixty years of age, who sat with his long neck erasing forward so long
as we hovered in danger, and who, with his eye » sparkling with intense
excitement and his lean bird-like face, looked like an eagle on the look
out for prey. All went well at first. Only a man and boy, however,
were rowing on the left side, while two men were rcwin on the right.
As we quilted the second rapid and were entering a di crest channel,
the sailors on the left side had to row with all their strength; that,
however, proved inadequate and the stream swept the boat round, so that
the stern was foremost. This was the culminating point of the passage.
The rain without losing his presence of mind for an instant, guided the
helm with his foot, while he assisted the rowers with his arms turned
the boat round once more, brought it into the right channel, and finally
into the less rapid part of the Nile, and so to Assets. The entire passage
lasted 42 minutes.

Faun Maninan T0 Puma the crooked road skirts the bank of
the river. The villageuchildren pursue the traveller, begging for
bakshish. When the path, covered with granite-dust, grows narrower
and begins to lead over smooth granite, the traveller should dismount. The curiously-shaped rocks in the bed and on the bank of the
Nile hear numerous inscriptions. Some of them look as though they
had been built up out of artificially rounded blocks. These forms
seem to have struck the ancient Egyptians most forcibly, form the
relief of the Source of the Nile at Phillis (p. 294)........ one of the few
representations of landscape in Egypt - the river-god crouches
under a pile of blocks like these. In 25 min, we reach a small plain
and obtain a charming view of Platter, the most beautiful spot on
the Nile, and the goal of travellers who do not wish to go on to the
second cataract. The small plain above-mentioned, to the E. of the
island, is shaded with handsome sycamore tress, near which is a
long low building of a semi-European appearance, with battlemented
roof. This is the deserted station of the Roman Catholic missionaries,
who house founded settlements in Central Africa, all of which, how
ever, including finally that at Khartdm, have been
smooth water, presents, with its imposing temple,

D p graceful kiosque, and flourishing vegetation, a

l l beautiful contrast to the rugged, bare and precipim

W. To the N. a massive double rock, with the name

0 w of Psammctikh H. conspicuous upon it, towers

Z above the rest; to the W. rises the rocky island of

scriptions. The ferry-boat is to be found at the

village of Shelli }. Between the railway-station of 811811511 and the

Nile is a fine palm-grove, with the tents of the Egyptian troops

is the residence of the commandant. Breakfast may be obtained on

board, but those who come by rail are recommended to bring their
provisions with them from Assam.








