281
29. The Island of Phflm.

Both the tourist--steamers and the mail--steamers allow one day for a
visit to miles. Tourists by the four-weeks steamer may visit the island
twice, and they are recommended to do so. Travellers to Nubia who are
unable to find time to visit Philae on the outward journey, should not
fail to devote to it at least a few hours on the return, either on the
evening of reaching Shelled, or on the next morning, after spending the
night on board the steamer. When more than one visit is paid the traveller should come once by rail, once by land returning by boat. Accommodation at Philm can only be obtained if a dhahabiyeh happens to
be there.

The name of Phila is derived from the old Egyptian, in which

' < 2 }
it is called, with the article, Pit-soles, or usually more-
ly dick 1 """"" I A. This name occurs thousands of times on the
a

island itself, with many variations, and probably means the island
of Lot, is. of Causing or of the End i, referring to the Nile-voyage
hither from the N. The Copts called it Pilot: or Points, and the
Arabs used to call it Bites. Now-a-days none of these names are
known to the natives, who usually call the island Anus clu- Wogdd,
after the hero of one of the tales in the Thousand and One Nights,
which has undergone considerable change in the Egyptian version
and has its scene transferred to Philae.

The boatmen relate it as follows.'Once upon a time there was a
king, who had a handsome favourite named does el- Wasted, and a vizier,
whose daughter was named Zahr 31- Word, ale. Flower of the Rose. The
two young people saw and fell in love with each other, and found opportunities of meeting secretly, until they were discovered through the imprudence of the maiden's attendant. The vizier was violently enraged
and, in order to secure his daughter from the farther pursuit of the
young man, despatched her to the island of Philm, where be caused her
to be imprisoned in a strong castle (the temple of Isis) and closely
guarded. But does el-Wogdd could not forget his love. He forsook the
court and wandered far and wide in search of her, and in the course of
his travels showed kindness to various animal » in the desert and elsewhere. At last a hermit told him that he would find Zahr oil-Ward on
the island of Philae. He arrived on the bank of the river and behold the
walls of the came, but was unable to reach the island, for the water all
around it was alive with crocodiles. As he stood lamenting his fate one of
the dangerous monsters offered to convey him to the island on his back, out
of gratitude for the young man's previous kindness to animals. The lever
was thus able to reach the prison of his mistress, and the guards endured
him to remain on the island, as he represented himself to be a persecuted
merchant from a distant land. Bird! belonging m Zak! el-Ward assured
him that she was on the island, but he could never obtain sight of hen
Meanwhile the lady also became unable longer to endure her fate. Letting
herself down from her prison--window by means of a rope made of her
clothes, she found a compassionate shipomaster, who conveyed her from
the island in which the lover she sought then was. Then followed another
period of search and finally the meeting of the lovers. A marriage, with
the consent of the father, ends the tale. - The Osiris Room on Philae
(p. 295) is regarded by the Arabs as the bridal-chamber. The tale in the



' This meaning belongs to the old Egyptian root let, which is preserved in the Coptic Rain.





