282 Route 29. PHILE. History.

Arabian Nights ends as follows:'So they lived in the bosom of happiness
to the advanced age, in which the roses of enjoyment shed their leaves and
tender friendship must take the place of passion t

It seems as though this legend had arisen on Egypt soil, and as
though it contained some echoes of the ancient mythology of Phila,
as. the search of his for her beloved Osiris and the disposal of the
goddess on an island in the Nile. It is even more remarkable that
Anas ol-Weld reached the island on a crocodile and that on the
W. side of the temple of Isis is a relief (p. 294) representing the
mummy of Osiris borne by a crocodile

The rocky island of Block, opposite Philm, seems to have been
an even earlier pilgrim-resort than the latter; yet there was probably
a temple also on Philae in comparatively early times. In the 4th
cent. B. 0. this must have been either unimportant or in mine, for

the name of chht ncbf (Hg

is the oldest name occurring as that of a builder, and that prince
reigned as a rival king to the Persian Achesmeuides and recognized
only by his countrymen, at the date mentioned. The work that he
began was: zealous"! continued by the Ptolemies, who had greater
resources at command, but even they left ample room for additional
buildings and farther decorations at the hands of the Roman emperors down to Diocletian

The principal temple, like the island itself, was sacred to Isis,
whose priests resided here down to comparatively late times as a
learned college. he one of the graves of Osiris was situated here,
it early became a pilgrimage resort for the Egyptians, one of whose
solemn oaths also was by the Osiris of Phila, When the cult of
Isis as well as that of Sample became known to the Hellenes and
afterwards to the Romans, many Greek and italics. pilgrims flocked
to the shrine of the mysterious, benign, and healing goddess. Even
under Ptolemy Physkon the priests were compelled to petition the
king to check the superabundant stream of pilgrims, who consumed
the temple-stores and threatened to reduce the priests to the necessity of withholding from the gods their bounden offerings (comp.
p. 284). On all the walls and columns of the temple are inscriptions, placed there by Greek or Roman officials, tourists, and pilgrims. They are most numerous in the S. part of the temple and in

, In the Thousand and One Nights this tale occupies the mat to
the 380th nights. It differs considerably from the versions of the sailors,
which moreover very very much among themselves The tale of Am
at » Woods and his mistress Et-W' and ('the Rose) is the title of a lithographed pamphlet of 34 leaves in which the above story is narrated in
verse in the felldhin dialect (not the literary Arabic). With several other
pieces,'.7, um ist and the Ram. it supplies the usual material for recitations in the Arab coffee houses, and is that universally known It

begins'1 shall build for thee a castle in the midst of the see (i s water)
of Kenar t e. Nubia.





