History. rumor. 29. Route. 283

the oldest part, dating from Nectanebus. We know also that the
goddess of Phila, was worshipped by the Blemmyes (p. 302), who
maintained the custom of human sacrifices until the time of Justin
nian. After Diocletian, who personally visited the island, had conquered these restless children of the desert, be destroyed the
fortifications of Philae, and new temples were erected in which
priests of the Blemmyes and Notaries were permitted to offer
sacrifices to Isis along with the Egyptian priests. And these tribes
even obtained the right of removing the miraculous image of
the mighty goddess from the island at certain solemn festivals
and of retaining it for some time. Even after all Egypt had long
been christianized and the Theba'id was crowded with monks, the
ancient pagan-worship still held sway in Nubia, in spite of the
Edicts of Theodosius. The Nobedes were converted to Christianity
about 540 AD. under the auspices of the Empress Theodora, and
shortly afterwards Nurses, sent by Justinian to Egypt, closed the
temple of Isis on Phila, and sent its sacred contents to Constantinople. At first the people of Phila, adopted the orthodox creed, but
when Egypt was conquered by Islam, they exchanged this for the
monophysite heresy. Although an inscription has been found in
the pronaos in praise of a Bishop Theodorus (577 AD.), who dedicated a portion at least of the temple of Isis to St. Stephen, it
is doubtful whether Phila was ever an episcopal seat. It is certain,
however, that Christian services were held in the hypostyle. The
inscriptions and reliefs were plastered over with Nile-mud or had
crosses carved upon them, so as to spare the feelings of the faithful and to exercise the evil spirits. _ Like Christianity, islem was
late in finding its way to Philas, and there is not a trace of a mosque
or anything of that nature on the entire island. Nubia was effectually conquered in the 13th cent. by the Egyptian sultans, who
included the cataract-region in their private domains, and thus
secured the temples from destruction .--Phi% was described in
1787 by Norden and Porsche, though at that time the natives were
as hostile to strangers as they are new friendly and obliging.

Isis, the chief deity of the island, is usually represented in the
triad completed by Osiris and Home, but she frequently also
appears alone. Everywhere, in her various forms, she occupies
the foremost place, just as Hathor does at Denderah. The deities of
Phila, include its and. Month, the twin-gods Shu and Tefnut, Solo
and Nut, 0siris-Unnofer (Agathodaemon) and Isis, Khnum and
Sati, the gods of the cataracts, Horus the son of Isis, Heather, and
the child Horus. Thoth, Safehh, and other denim, also frequently
appear.

Platter is the pearl of Egypt, and those who have several days to
spend at the cataract, should certainly take up their abode upon it
It is 420 yds. long, 150 yds. wide at the broadest part, and has a
circumference of 980 yds. It is uninhabited but anoldwwatchman,



