284 Route 29, PHILIE. Temple

who lives with his children and grandchildren on Bigch, willingly
assists travellers. The view of Philae from the river-bank is 1mm
expectedly beautiful, especially to those who have just quitted the
rugged rocks of the cataract or the arid desert; while, on the other
hand, the views from the island, especially from its rocky S. and,
are imposing and sometimes peculiarly wild.

The buildings on the island which demand a visit are: i. The
"Templ: of Isis; 2. The Chapel of Rather; 3. The Ruins and the
Portal of Diocletian, in the N.W.; and d. The *eioNut, - Bigets
and the Cataract Islands also repay a visit.

The Temple of Isis.

This beautiful structure dates from various periods, and its
different parts show an almost capricious irregularity in their positions with. reference to each other. The traveller is recommended
to visit the various portions in the following order, but he is warned
against lingering too long over any of them, if his time be limited
or if his inspection have no Special scientific aim. It is better to
obtain a good general impression from the whole, than to examine
the details minutely. In order to understand the arrangement of
the temple, it must not be forgotten that it was predminently a
pilgrim-resort. The processions of pilgrims, whether they approached from Egypt or from Nubia, were compelled to steer for
the S. and of the island, for the rocks to the N. of it prevented
anything like a ceremonial approach. The portals of the temple
therefore faced the 8., and the festal boats disembarked their passengers on the S. coast. We likewise begin our visit from the S.,
or more exactly from the extreme S.W., to which we proceed
direct from the landing-place. Our attention is first attracted by
the strong erection of been stones facing the stream The steps of
a Stone Staircase within the quay-wall are still to be seen on the
S.W. coast; and there was another staircase on the S. coast, to the
E. of the building of Nectanebus.

a. The Building of Nectanebns (PI. A). Two Obelisk: to the entrance to the hyptethral ForcaCourt, which the pilgrim entered
first, and where he was received, and perhaps also examined and
taxed. With the exception of the central portion of the first pylon
(p. 287), dating from this some king, Nectanebus IL, this is the
oldest part of the whole temple. The obelisks, made of sandstone,
instead of the usual granite, were small and stood upon stone chests.
The W. obelisk is still standing, but the E. obelisk is represented
by its chest merely.

The E. obelisk itself was found prostrate by Banker in 1815, and at
his request removed to Alexandria by Belzoni, despite the protests of
Drovetti who regarded at as his private property. From Alexandria it
was taken to England, where it now thud: at Kingston Hall in Dorsetshire. 9n the lotus! part of the pedestal is a long Greek inscription
containing a petition addressed by the priests of Isis to' g Eu gates 11.










