ares; rerun. 29. me. 285

and his two wives, against the expense caused by the too frequent visits
of royal officials and their retinues, which impoverished the temple.
Above this are two other inscriptions, only fragments of which are preserved, in which the granting of the petition by the king and the conw
sequent royal decree are announced.

This obelisk has been of the greatest importance for the interpretation
of the Egyptian hieroglyphics. The names of Ptolemy Euergetes and
Cleopatra, which occur in Greek on the pedestal, were discovered by
Champollion in 1822 on the obelisk itself, and from the latter name he
was enabled to add a few more alphabetical signs to those already ascertained from the Rosetta decree (Vol, L, p. 111).

The W. Obelisk, as we have said, remains in Him though it has
lost its point. Upon it is inscribed, in Greek, a petition from Theodotos, son ongesiphon, to lsis and her fellow--gods, dating from the
time of None Dionysus. There are also some Arabic inscriptions.

The hypnthral vestibule was bounded on each side (E. and W.)
by six columns and one of the obelisk?" The six W. columns are
still standing, but only three stumps of the E. row remain. Between
the columns were screen-walls, half as high as the shafts, and
adorned with concave cornices and balustrades of Uranus--serpents.
The columns, only 21/6 it. in thickness, high, and have
calyx-capitals supporting an abacus decorated with the Esthermash, on which rests a small chapel. These capitals, which resemble those of the Ptolemaic epoch, are specially remarkable, as
they were erected by Nectanehus before the period of the Lagidae.
Nectanebus who maintained himself for some time in opposition to
the Persian kings, appears to have delighted in comparing himself
to the ancient Pharaohs, as we may gather from his first name Roalthcpcr-Ito, which was also that of Usertesen I. of the 12th Dorm;
and it is possible that he adopted, in the same spirit, old and forgotten artistic forms in his erections. It is certain that the Esthermask at the top of the columns is only found earlier than his time
on the monuments of the 18th Dyn. at Dér elmbahri (p. 223) and
elmth (p. 236). The architects of the Ptolemies were afterwards attracted by the abacus adorned with the countenance of the goddess
of Denderah, adopted it, and farther developed the sculptured calyx: capital, here first introduced by Nectanebus .---- - On the W. and E.
sides of each of the six standing columns are dedication--inscriptions.
On the outer (WO side of the most southerly column (next to the
obelisk) is the inscription: "The good god, lord of both worlds,
Ra-kheper-ka, son of the sun of the sun and lord of the diadems, Nectanebus,
the ever-living, erected this sumptuous building for his mother
1515, the bestower of life, in order to enlarge her dwelling with excellent work, for time and for eternity!" - On the outer side of the

third column the name of Phila appears as Ales """" c: (with the

article, Patrick), a form found at many other places, and the mistress

of the island is named as Q 5:





