286 Route 29. Temple

Isis, the life giving goddess of Act, he. of Abaton or the holy island. The last name deserves mention here, for the spot known to
the ancients as Abaton, which must have been peculiarly holy in
their eyes, is named innumerable times in the inscriptions of the
temple of Isis. It must therefore be looked for on Philae itself. The
inscription on the Architrave of the enter or West Side states that
the king erected this building for his mother Isis, and that he rebuilt the hall for her of good white hewn stone, surrounded with
columns, with inscriptions throughout its whole extent, and, as the
line below the architrave adds, painted in colours. The inner side
of the architrave bears an invocation to leis, mother of the gods

This little temple had doors on the E. and W. sides, not,
however, opposite to each other, and another on the N. side, next
the main temple. The last lamb into a spacious Fore- Court
(Pl. B), enclosed on the right and left by covered Colonnades. The
W. colonnade (PI, F) follows the bank of the river, while that to
the E. or right (PL D) runs in the direction of the centre of the
first great pylon, but not at right angles to it, affording an example
of the variety of axial direction exhibited throughout the temple.

When we remember that a portion of the first pylon and the
hypwthral Space, which we have just quitted, were built by Nectar
nebus, and that all the other parts of the temple are of later data,
we have an adequate explanation of the great irregularity displayed
in its plan. It is quite certain that the structures that now hear
the name of Neotanebus (a portal and a vestibule) were not the
only buildings on Philae under that king, for the construction of
every temple, without exception, began with the sanctuary and
ended with the doors. We may assume that an extensive temple
stood here before its removal by the Persians; and that the latter
largely destroyed the works of their rival. The parts that were
spared were then incorporated by the Ptolomaic builders, while the
Romans united the work of the Lagidae with the ancient vestibule
of Nectauebus by means of the tapering peristyle court.

b. The Colonnaded Court. This space is bounded on the W.
side by a long wall, pierced here and there with windows, which,
based on a firm substructure on the river-bank, forms the back of
a narrow, but unusually long Colonnade (PI. F, 100 wing. The
latter, built under the Romans, hue a row of 31 (formerly 2) columns, each 16 it. high, on its E. side, and has a roof of good casssetted work. The colour of the hieroglyphics and representations
is still remarkably vivid in various places, especially in the S. portion nus: the vestibule of Nectanebus. There appear N em with his
cartouches, Claudius Caesar and Germanium Autocr-wr before
Horus, Tasentnefert and Pinebtati (who also appears at Ombos,
p. 261) worshipping the lord of Ombos. Farther to the N., on the
back wall of the colonnade are the name of Tiberius and a fine
Greek inscription, beginning, imsrs.








