of his. PRIME. 29. Route. 287

not, etc. The translation of the latter is as follows:'Ammonius,
son of Dionysius, fulfilled a row made to Isis, Serapis, and the
gods worshipped along with them, by presenting to them the worship of his brother Protas and his children, of his brother Niger,
his wife Klidemas, and his children Dionysius and Anabas. On the
12th Payni of the Slat year of Omar". - This Caesar is Caesar
Augustus, in whose reign therefore the wall, though furnished with
inscriptions by later emperors, must have existed at least in a rough
state. The other inscriptions are of similar purport.

At the S. and of the E. Colonnade (Pl. D) was a large Hall
(Pi, C), of which only fragments of the N. and E. walls remain.
It bears the name of Tiberius. The colonnade, which adjoins its
N. wall, was never entirely completed. Only three of the capitals
of the columns (including a very fine palm--capital) are finished;
the rest are merely roughly blocked out, but they are of interest as
showing us that the more elaborate carving was not taken in hand
until after the capitals had been placed in position upon the shafts.
The E. colonnade does not extend as far as the first pylons, but is
separated from them by a small Temple of Aheulapius' the Egyptian lmhotep, son of Ptah (Pl. E), consisting of two chambers, and
facing the S. The Greek inscription over the entrance dates from
Ptolemy V. Epiphanes, his wife, and son, the Egyptian cartouches



on the door itself from Ptolemy IV. Philopator (
Q

~--The W. colonnade which skirts the river, is joined on the N.
by a narrow passage (Pl. a), which leads past the pylons at some
distance to the left (W.). The peristyle court, for which fore-court
would be a more accurate name, is thus by no means enclosed by
the pylons.

o. The First Pylon (PI. H) turned towards the approaching pro-w
sessions two lofty and broad Towers, with a narrow Portal between
them. This portal, built and adorned by Nontanebus IL, is the
eldest part of the pylon. The smaller portal, to the left, like the
temple behind it (Birth-house, see p. 289), which stands in rela
tion with it, dates from Ptolemy VII. Philometor

the decoration of the facade was added by Ptolemy XHI Neos, Dies
nysns. Within the chief portal appears also Ptolemy K. Sate! IL,
with his mother and wife, presenting to leis the symbol of a field.
The entire imposing erection is 150 ft. broad and 60 ft. high. The
S. facade, fronting the processions advancing from the Nile, is
covered with Beliefs an crests.

At each side of the Central Doorway on, b) is a figure of Isis. On
the upper part of the left tower is the Pharaoh sacrificing to Osiris and
leis, and to Isis and Home; on the corresponding part of the right tower,
he appears before Horns and Nephthys, and before Isis and Home. The
lower parts of the towers are devoted as usual to military scenes. The
Pharaoh (Neos Dionysus, 59 B 0.) appears as the smiter "his anemic »;






