288 Route 29. Puma. Temple

to the right, Isis with Her-hut presents him with the stag of victory
Half of the figures have been deliberately defaced.

The Ascent of the Pylons, commanding an excellent view of the whole
island and its surrounding, is made from the peristyle court entered by
the central ortal. Within this portal, to the right, is the following In: mym; F fan a oursuivies an deli. dos cataractes ch
il est arriv 1e 13 ventose as Pau _ (is. March 3, 1799). Then follow
the names of me brigadier-generals, - The staircase leading to the top
of the "East Tower begins in the small chamber (Pi, e), in the SE comer
of the peristyle court. It ascends gradually, round a square newel. Several unadorned chambers, probably used for the storing of astronomical
instruments and for the use of astrologers, are to be found within the
tower. They are feebly lighted by window-openings, decreasing in size
towards the outside wall. - The West Tower can only be reached from
the E. tower. The crosses on the Money of the roof formerly held braces
of wood or iron.

Two Obelisk: and two Lions, all of granite, formerly stood before the entrance. The foot of the W. obelisk is all that remains of
the former; the latter lie much damaged on the ground. Numerous
Greek Inscriptions have been carved here by pilgrims. "Adjoining
the S.E. side of the pylon is the beautiful Gateway (Pl. G) of Ptolemy H. Philadelphus, who appears on its E. side. On its W.
wall, to the right and left, is the emperor Tiberius, above, Philadelphus.

d. The Inner Peristyle (Pl. I), bounded on the S. by Pylon H.,
is bounded on the N. by another Pylon (P1. K). These, however,
are by no means parallel to each other, while the edifices to the
E. and W. of the peristyle are so entirely dificrent, that it is at
once apparent that the court was not constructed according to any
preconceived plan. The requirements of the moment and the avail--able space were taken into account, not any artistic considerations. Nevertheless this court, entirely enclosed by buildings of
the most varied forms, must be described as unusually effective.
0n the E. and W. are two oblong edifices, each with columns on
the side next the court. That to the W. (left) is a distinct temple,
forming a kind of peripteros; that to the E. was used by the
priests.'Thia court, which is mostly uneven, contains one spot excellently adapted for the pitching of a tent. Cook's parties usually
lunch here, if there are more than one party at the some time, the
second lunches in the kiosque (Pl. R).

e. The Temple to the W. of the Peristyls (Pl. L) stands immediately behind the left (WI) wing of the first pylon, and a doorway in the latter (p. 287) has exactly apposite the S. Entrance
Door (Pl, d) of the temple, from which it is separated only by a
narrow open passage. At the N. and of the colonnade on the side
of the temple next the court is a Promos with d columns, of which two are engaged in
the portal. Beyond lies a Cello with three chambers, surrounded
on three sides by a cclcnnade. This temple was intruded by Etc-


