of no. PHILE. 29. Route. 289

loser VH. Philometor, and most of its decorations were due to Ptolemy IX. Euergetes IL, though the later Lagidze and Tiberius also
contributed a share.'

The vestibule here is loft": numerous interior reliefs
represent Tiberius before the diiTeresit deities of the tem to. The carefully
elaborated doorway at the back of the presses dates mm Euergetes It,
The first room is quite unadorned. Above the door to the second room
is a window, bordered on each side by two Rather-masks. Tiberius is
named several times an ma wane, which have been partly plastered over
with mud. The early Christians, who perhaps used the second room for
purposes connected with their services, have entirely plastered over the
heathen Inscription: there; while the highly interesting Representation: in
the third room have been left quite untouched. From these we learn that
the temple was intended to represent the Birth-House or Meshes, in
which the infant ngos first saw the light (similar buildings at Denderah,
Edfu, em, pp. 80, My The reliefs on the rear wall are in two sections.
The lower series represents the Birth of Harm, who is introduced into
life by Amman, Thoth, And cum god; In the u per row we see Horus
ascending from a huge bunch of lotusrflowers, an beside him the serpent
ceiling round a column adorned with 1otwrflowems, beneath which kneel
two forms, covered with the Urbano--hood. The allegorical meaning of
this latter composition is obscure. On the W. wall of the chamber is
a Goddess (head destroyed), offering the breast to the new-born child, and
close by is Rather, the good fairy of Egyptian nurseries, placing her
left hunt in benediction on the head of Home, and holding his arm
with her right. King Ptolemy IX. Euhrgetea IL is depicted heading
to her two metal-mirrors'to rejoice the golden one with the sight of her
beautiful form"....... These representations do not only celebrate the mystic
birth of the god, they refer also to the most beautiful and most responsible
duties of motherhood, which Isis, Rather, and Nephthys undertake. Their
nursling appears indeed to be the infant Horns, but it is evident from
many a lesions, that the young Pharaoh, the heir to the throne of Ra,
was considered as the incarnation in human form of the young god, and
that these representations were meant to convey to the Ptolemies that a deity
had home and suckled them or their first~born, and that the immortaL-s
had guided their upbringing with invisible hands. Cleopatra L, the mother
of the two brothers who caused the placing of this inscription, had acted
as guardian and regent especially during the childhood of Philometor, the
elder. She was the leis of the young Horus. On the E. outside wall of
the cella a relief shows us Home learning from the goddess of the IN.
to play on the nine-atringed lute, while Isis superintends the lesson. The
shape of the instrument is Greek, and by the goddess of the north is
perhaps meant Hellenic music, which was cultivated even by the earlier
Lagidae. C _

Ail the Inscription: here date from Tiberius, who is named'Autokrator
Kisres" on the E. side and'Tiberius' on the W. side. A double votive-n
inscription of the same date proves that the former phrase applies to
Tiberius... H "

The columns of the Colonnades on the W. and N. sides of the
06113 exhibit genuine Ptolemaie capitals with a very high abacus.
On the N; side (Ph f) is the peculiar but elegant capital, found
only on Philae, consisting of a bunch of papyrus-buds, supporting
the absent on their tips. Screen-walls, more than half as high as
the shafts; connect the columns." The most conspicuous columns are
the seven on the side of the temple next the court: These have
fhter1rtumrpturtsirPtoltsrriaiti capitals, surmounted by "a cubical abacne Miith 1rtrthor-rmuskiand chapels. The Architroee opera adorned

Bhanamn'g Upper Egypt. i.





