290

with the concave comics and astragal, exhibit: an unusually fine
inscription, tuned in the grand style, of which a duplicate occurs
on the architrave of the E. colounade opposite. This DedicationInscription records that Ptolemy IX. Euergetee IL Phyakon (with
numerous titles) and his wife Cleopatra, princess and mistress of
both worlds, the Energetm (divine benefactors), loud the life
giving Isis, the mistress of Abaton, the queen of the island of Philas

a A and the mistress of the S. lands. The king

< 7 < 3 o,
and the queen, Philadelphi :1 (divine brothers), Euergette
2 El, Philopatores, Epiphanes, Eupstores, and Philometores,

erected and restored this beautiful monument, that it might be a
festal hall for his (the king's) other Usert--Hathor, em, and a

scene of joyful excitement, te Tack, for the mistress of

Philae, that she might settle in it, etc. The above list of Ptolemaic
surnames is especially important.

At the top of the left colonnade, next the first pylon, are some
demotic and hieroglyphic Decrees, of the 21st year of Ptolemy Epiphanes, one relating to the celebration of the suppression of a revolt
end the punishment of the rebels, the other in honour of Cleopatra,
wife of Epiphanes. These inscriptions, of great scientific value
though extremely lightly and almost illegibly carved, were discovered
by Lepsius in 1843. Unfortunately they have been much injured
by figures carved over them under Neos Dionysus. An upper story
of Nile bricks, new in ruins, was built at some later period on the
roof of this peripteral temple. It is entirely out of place and
should be removed.

f. The Building on the E. side of the Peristyle (PL M), mentioned on p. 288, lies opposite the birth-house, and presents a long
Colonnade of 10 columns, with elaborate capitals, towards the
court. In the rear- « wall of this colonnade is first, to the left, a
large doorway, leading through a vestibule to the outside of the
temple, and then three lesser doors leading into three small chambers, partly devoted to scientific purposes. At the B. end, close to
the pylon, is a fifth door, admitting to a room now half in mine.
To the left of this room is another chamber (PL 1; see below), and
straight on is the Staircase (P1. to) leading to the room on the
upper story. Some of the latter are tolerably spacious, but have no
inscriptions; whereas the lower story and the columns were adorned
with hieroglyphics by Ptolemy XIII. Neos Dionysus. The Inscriptions in the various rooms are due to Tiberius, to whom Philae in
general is much indebted.

The most interesting rooms on the E. side of the peristyle
are first that into which the door nearest the pylon "; to






