of leis. PRIME. 29. Route. 291

the staircase admits us, and secondly that to the right of the large
doorway. Both are without windows. Inscriptions on the doorposts inform us of the purpose of these rooms. The first (p. 1) was
the Laboratory, in which was prepared the excellent incense known
as Kyphi, which must have been used in great quantities for the
service: of the gods. The names and the proportionate quantities
(in figures) of the drugs used in its preparation are recorded on the
door-posts, The interior has no inscriptions. The other (entered
by the fourth door from the pylon) is, on the other hand, very rich
in inscriptions This small room, extremely elegantly adorned
with sculptures by the orders of Tiberius (here named'Autokrator
Kiares'), was the Library (pi, hr, and on the right door-post is the

legend:'This is the library--room of the gracious Saw

m l l
fehh, goddess of history, the room for preserving the writings of the
life-bestowing lsis'.

The representations over the door must have been specially objectionable to the Christians, for they have all been carefully chiselled out. On
the left side of the chamber itself is a recess like a wa1l-erqrtroard in
which perha s the most precious 20115 were preserved Beneath is a lifelike relief o a cynooephalus (the sacred animal of Thothoiierxnes) writing
a papyrus-scroll. Here as usual the Pharaoh (Tiberius) is depicted receiving
the blasting; of life in symbols from the deities u on whom he had. bow
stowed gifts; on the right well he appears before sis and Horns, on the
back-wall before Isis. Between the emperor and the goddess in the latter
scene stands an altar, beneath which are two swine, as the sacrificial
animals. On the left well, over the above-mentioned recess, are the sacred
ibis of That }: He, his, the goddess of truth with the" palette and the chisel in
her hand, Tefnut, and afekht on the door, here named
the'aacred ibis of mum and thus placed entirely on an equality with
Thoth. On the right well, opposite, is the eow-headed Heat, mother of the
goes, with two vessels with handles, before Osiris, Isis, and Horse.

The next door to the left, higher than the others, leads into a room
(Pl. g), named'Chambre de Tiber! by Champollion, because Tiberius is represented sacrificing to the gods on both the side-walls

and over the door, on the outside, while in the second row on the tight

@ he appears again before the Nubian god q

Above are dedicatory inscriptions by Eucrgetes H. and Cleopatra
his wife, who appear on the door entering from the colonnado.

Returning once more to the colonnade, we find another door at
its N. and (Pi. n). Here, an inscription informs us, stood the
door--keepers entrusted with the purification of those entering the
temple. The lions on the outside wall were also named in an in »
scription'templewguards', though symbolically only. m Outside the
temple M., in the direction of Bigeh, a. Nilometer was discovered by
Capt. Handcoch in 1886.

g. The Second Pylon (Pi. is), standing at an obtuse angle with
the E. colonnade, encloses the peristyls court on the N. It is
smaller (106 ft, wide, 40 ft. high) and in poorer pree Tration than






