292 Route 29. PHILE. Tamale

the first pylon. An inner staircase second.8 to the W. pylon, whence
we proceed across the mined roof to the E. pylon. To reach the
top of the W. pylon, we ascend the staircase to the Osirismrooms
(p. 295), and then proceed leaving these on the right. The ascent
of the first pylon (p. 288) is, however, preferable in every respect.
On the front of the E. wing being the peristyle court is a semicircular of reddish brown granite, erected to commemorate a
lavish grant of lands, by which Ptolemy VII. Philometor (94 BIL)
enriched the temple. It was inscribed on the polished reu-wnl! m'
a monolithic chapel built into the pylon. The king, however, seems
merely to have granted to the priests a new lease of the ancient
property of the goddess. On the pylon are some Colossal «
To the right is King Naos Dionysus holding his enemies by the hair,
before Horsiisi and Esther; beneath, smaller representations. To
the left the king appears before Osiris and 1313. The grooves for
the dag--studs should also be noted. The Portal (Pl. p) to the temple
proper, approached by a shallow flight of steps, was built by Euer »
getes II. in imitation of the portal of Nectanebus in the first pylon.
Within it the predecessors of the builder are recounted.





The Temple of Isis proper, entered by this portal, was built
according to an independent plan, embracing a hypostyle, a prouses with various divisions, and a sanctuary, with two side-rooms,

Ptolemy II. Philadelphus was the founder of this temple, to whose
decoration the hostile brothers Philometor and Euergetes IL (Physhon)
contributed most largely. It was only natural that both the weak but
amiable Philometor and the vicious but energetic Pbyskon should interest
themselves in the sanctuary of Isis, for both were much interested in
retaining Nubia. We are aware that the former maintained a military
station to the S. of Philcc, which afterwards grew into the town of
Porembcle (p.305). Later Ptolemies are also named here. We refrain
from a closer examination of the reliefs and inscriptions in this temple,
though they are not uninteresting from a mythological point of view. con »
taming ourselves with a reference to the detailed descriptions of the
Ptolemaic temples at Denderah (p. so) and Edfu (p. 244). q"

h. The Hypostylc (PI. N) contains ten columns arranged in
three rows. The second and third rows contain each two animus
to the right and two to the left; while the first row has only the two
corner-columns, the space between them being left uncovered for
the sake of light. The hall thus consists properly speaking of two
portions: an uncovered fore-court with two doors, on the right and
left, leading to the outside of the temple, and a covered part behind.
The columns are 241/2 ft. high and 133/4 ft. in circumference. The
uncovered portion could be shaded from. the sun by means of a
velarium; the holes for the cords are still visible in the upper part
of the concave cornice turned towards the second pylon. The colouring of this hall, which has been preserved on the ceiling and the
columns, must have been very brilliant The Capitals are the most
instructive of all the specimens that have come down to us of the
manner in which the Egyptians coloured their win








