o 293

"y-blue, light-green, and a light and a dark shade of red are the
prevailing colon"; but these were distributed according to conventional
rules. Although vegetable forms are imitated with admirable fidelity,
the mine: did not shrink from colouring them with complete disregard
to nature, simply because ancient convention demanded it. Light-green
palm-twigs receive blue ribs, and blue flowers have blue, red, or yellow
petals. Below the alumni (m the shaft is a kind of band (found also else »
where), indicating that the vegetable forms surrounding the core of the
capital were supposed to be firmly bound to the top of the shaft. The
height and ornamentation of the lower parts of the shafts are the same in
all the columns; but the capitals, some of which are beautiful palmetrpitals, are varied.

On the Ceiling are astronomical representations. The entire hall
bears the inscriptions of Ptolemy LE, Euargeten IL-Above the
door in the back wall leading to the process is a long Inscription,
carved over the hieroglyphics by the Italian Expedition of 1841.
The Christian successors of the priests of leis have out numerous
Coptic crosses in the walls to signalize their appropriation of the
temple and to guard against the cunning malice of the heathen
deities. Christian services were celebrated in this hall, A Week
inscription in the doorway to the process, on the right, records
that the good work (probably the plastering up of the reliefs and
the preparation of the hall for Christian worship) took place under
the abbot Theodorus. This was in the reign of Justinian.

L The Chambers of the Pronaos. The three successive rooms
of the process date from Ptolemy 11, Philadelphus. The First
Room (PL r) was adjoined on each side by others. That on the
right, now destroyed, was connected with a Second Room wr. s),
on the E. wall of which Philadelphus is shown presenting digest
adoring to his mother Isis. In the room to the left (PI, t), int-which
the staircase to the roof starts, Philadelphus appears before Isis and
before Rather. The next room to the left is a dark chamber. Right
round the foot of the wall in the following wide Third Room (P1. a),
immediately before the sanctuary, runs a list of names. The doors
on the right and left of this room admit to long, narrow, dark
apartments, perhaps used as Treasure-Chambers. The entrance to
that on the left (Pi, w) is about'2 it. from the ground. The visitor
should enter, strike a light, and inspect the sculptures in this
chamber which resembles a huge stone chest. The lower part of
the wall is smooth, as it was concealed by the treasures stored here;
but higher up Ptolemy H. Philadelphus caused the walls to be
adorned with elegant reliefs and inscriptions.
On the rear-wall is represented its. enthroned on the symbol of gold.



or no. Emma. - so.



' At the S. end of the W. wall Ptolemy Philadelphus appears
DOG
kneeling and holding in his arms the large chest of gold, which he
presented to the temple of Isis; and the same scene is repeated on the
W.wall. In the former case the king wears the crown of Lower Egypt

q in the letter that of Upper Egypt .-TU inscription: mum
that the Pharaoh came to the goddess bringing to ly gmd








