293 Bounce. Perms;

and that "the mistress of I'hilm gmted him snperabnndanoe of everything,
all gifts of plants and fruits that the earth produces, and placed the whole
world in contentmentumdimilar representations (ofi'erings of te of gold
and bright~coloured garments) occur in the chamber to the right (Pl. s),
which is in communication with Boom I T

In the Annex (Pl. O) is a small Chapel formed of a single
stone, with the names of Euergetes I. and Berenice II. (which also
occur in the room on the left). But as the inscriptions on the walls
attest, this, the oldest part of the inner temple, dates from the
time of Ptolemy II. In the rear-wall of the cells is
a crypt. In the room to the right of the adytum is a subterranean
floor, with Nile gods and the young prince; above, Philadelphus
before Isis and Harpocrates (Horpekbrud).

k. The Building to the W. of the Hypostyle (Pl. P) is reached
by quitting the hypostyle by the first door on the W., (to our left as
we enter). It consists of a ruined Cello and a chamber, in fairly
good preservation, facing the river. (in the S. wall are some
remarkable representations. Horus receives the water of life from

. Isis and Nephthys. The goddess of history
behind Isis, and Thoth behind Nephthys
write the name of the royal builder on a
palm-branch, at the end of which waves
the sign of festivals, composed of the
hieroglyphs of life, endurance, and power.

Ma holds in her hand the sail, the

symbol of new life. Here also is an 1358,
who has been converted into a M. Mary.
- The handsome Portal (W. x), built by
Hadrian, bears on the right and left, the
secret symbols of Osiris Over the door,
to the left, is a small representation of the
Island of Plain. On one side appear the
slide of Bigeh, on the other the pylons of
Philm. In a square between these is a
highly remarkable relief. At the bottom
is a Crocodile bearing on its back the mummy of Osiris, from which flowers spring
(camp. the legend of Ann'h-Weird,
Source of the Nile, p. 281). Above appears the risen Dim,
enthroned with the young Harpocrates, in

a disc before which stands Isis. Above the whole the sun appears on
the left and the moon to the right, with stars bemoan them," adjacent are a large and two smaller pylons. On the N. wall, close to
the room lying nearest the river, is the famous Representation o the
Source of the Nile, already mentioned in Vol. L, p. 135. Bigeh file.
nem), one of the cataract. islands, is here depicted, with a cave in
its lowest part. In this crunches the Nile, guarded b sequent, and












