arm; mama 29.1mm 295

pouring water from two vases. On the summit of the rocky source
of the waters are a vulture (Math) and a hawk (Horus), gazing into
the distance and keeping watch. This is almost the only landscape
hitherto discovered on any Egyptian monument. The inscription
is in these words:'the very remote and very noted who men in
Bigeh (Sensory.
On the front of this little temple, to the left, is a Demotic Inscription
in red letters, in which Aurelius Antoninus Pins and Lucius Verne are
mentioned with their titles derived from con cored provinces. The
Customers of these into emperors occur also on a walls of the temple;
te on the outside of the W. wall are numerous inscriptions, chiefly

I. The great Outside wm. of the Temple are covered with
Inscriptions; to the left (W) by Tiberius, to the right (E) by
Autohratcr Kisses (perhaps Augustus or even Tiberius again). The
most noteworthy is a List of Names, of great importance for the
geography of the ancient Egyptians (Vol. L, p. M). On the W. well
are the names of Lower Egypt, on the E. wall, near the foot, those
of Upper Egypt. Other lists are found within the temple.

m. The "Jam Boom, remarkably interesting on account of
the sculptures which cover its walls, is found as follows. Returning
to the second room (W. t) of the promos we pass through the door
on he W side (next the Nile), and immediately to the right see
a Portal (still in the temple), leading to a Staircase which we ascend. A second staircase then leads to the roof of the cells. Here
we turn towards the S. and finally descend some stone steps to a
doorway built over with Nile bricks. The Vestibuic is interesting.
Hopi (the Nile) lets milk trickle from his breast and. Home pours

M
the water of life, ~40 ~40 ~40, over Osiris, who lies in the

shape of a mummy upon a bier. Twenty-eight lotus-plants sprout
from him, referring perhaps to the 28 days of the month"): the
28 one of the maximum height of the Nile at Elephantine, or to
the id scattered and reunited parts of his body.

The'sprouting' of the dead into new life is a conception frequently
made use of, even with regard to the passing away of mankind. In the
Book of the Bend are the passages'I have accomplished the great path
(in the boat of the son), my flesh sprouts".'He has become a god forever,
after his flesh acquired quickening ower in the underworld'.

At the resurrection of Osiris al the spirits are resent who play a
part in the Egy tian doctrine of immortality. They are appear in Ion
town on the we In of the sacred chamber. The risen Osiris in adorna
with all the insignia of his dignity as a ruler of the underworld

On the left door-post of the Osiris room are three dress Inscriptions,
of which the longest dates from the 165th year of Diocletian tho A.DO
and another (very short) from the 169th year of Diocletian (A. j,
From these it is evident that the'pagan worship of leis and Osiris was
practised here down to a late perm The votive insert tiena were componed by the proto-Istolistes Smetkhen and his brother met.

A few smaller edifices still remain to be visual }. To the N. are
the ruins of a Christian Church, into which have been built frogs
ments of an earlier structure of Tiberius. Here als _ thin fitted








