"h

296 Route 29. mum. Pm. Temple

Nao, dating from Ptolemy and Cleopatra .--If we quit the hypostyle of the temple of Isis proper by the small portal in its E. wall
between the first row of columns and the second pylon, we see
about 50 peace in front of us the Chapel of Rather (Pi. Q), the
smallest temple on the island. That it was especially dedicated to
Rather we learn from hieroglyphic inscriptions

QQQESEDZMSE ]

of the time of the emperor Augustus, and from the Greek isscxiption IEPTIA EHOIHCEN - TH - AQFQAEITH, Wiertia directed
(a prayer) to Aphrodite (Hathor)'.t The fact that the rear wall of
this chapel has no inscriptions and the ruins behind it indicate
that it was once joined to some larger edifice. At the entrance
stand two Ptolemaic columns, with a doorway between them, the
sidewposts of which, unconnected with each other at the top, reach
to the bands below the capitals. This doorway is built up, and it
is probable that the single apartment within the temple was used
as a dwelling, as its walls are much blackened.

Within appen- Ptolemy VII. Philometor and Euergetes ll, with Clem
pairs; and also over the entrance. On the 8. side is the emperor before

Hathor and Horsamtaui, and before Khnum and Esther }; on the N. side
before Osiris and leis. Beneath was a geographical inscription.





The mosque.

A few minutes bring us from the chapel of Rather to the elegant
and airy Position (Pl. R) » frequently celled'Pharaoh's Bed', one
of the chief decorations of the island, which may beessily recognised
by the lofti sheet, or rather imports, that support the arohitraye.
Passengers are usually landed immediately below it. It is situated
on the E. coast of Philm, which is here bounded by a carefully
built wall. The builder of the beautiful temple, dedicated likewise
to Isis, was Nerve Trajanus; but its ornamentation with sculptures
and inscriptions was never quite completed. The inscriptions COR-'tain little of importance, so that the visitor may resign himself at
once to the pleasure of rest and luncheon on this beautiful spot.
The Kiosque of Phila has been depicted a thousand times, and the
slender and graceful form, that greets the eyes of the travellers as
they approach the island, well deserves the honour. The architect
who designed it was no stranger to Greek art, and this pavilion,
standing among the purely Egyptian ternples around it, produces
the tiNet of a line of Homer among hieroglyphic insert time, or of
a naturally growing tree xmang orrtifieisliy trimmed edges. We
here perceive that a beautiful fundamental idea has power to distract
the attention from deficiencies in the details by which it is carried



in After isomers the word 367% is probably to he has ted.








