of Isis. PHILIE. 29. Route. 297

out.- Although exception may be taken to the height of the about
and. to many other points, no one who has visited Philn will forget
this little temple, least of all it he have seen it by moonlight.

In the NE. of the island are the ruins of a village and of buildings
of various kinds. In the extreme RE. is a Roman Triumphal Arch (PI, bo.
with a lofty middle portal flanked by lower wings. The structure, which
has'also been taken for a city gate, men the E, us. the well-fortified
bank of the Nile. The S. wing is in good preservation but is somewhat
clumsy. Above it is a brick dome supported on sandstone consoles. It
is possible that Diocletian passed beneath the central arch when he
visited the sacred island of Philae. His name, at 311 event's, is to be
found on the blocks of sandstone scattered on the ground i.

The huge heaps of ruins scattered over the island defy description,
and contain little of interest. On the other hand study may well be
devoted to the numerous Inscription; in demotic, Greek, Latin, Coptic,
and Arabic. Some of the Greek inscriptions are elegant. The Verse »
of Utilities screamed Nicanor, son of Nicanor, who lived T 3.0., are excellent; and m acrostica display considerable skill.

The Cataract 1312.365.
The islands in the neighbourhood of Philae are picturesque, but
a visit to them can be recommended only to Egyptologists and geologists, for they contain nothing but rocks with a few inscriptions

carved upon them.
mag."

Bigeh, called by the ancient Egyptians Fttttti tCh Smem-t, lying

opposite Philae, is the most easily accessible. It is reached in about
two minute from Phila, of which it commands a picturesque view,
as Philae does of it, with its bare rocks and ruined buildings. Bigeh
enjoyed a very early reputation for peculiar sanctity, and we'have
already seen (p. 294) that one of the symbolical sources of the Kim
was located here. Various Rock Inscriptions and also the hieroglyphics on, granite Statue of Osiris found here record that as
early as the 18th Dym, under Amenhotep H. and Amenhotep Ill,
this island was visited by pilgrims and was provided with temples.
The deities chiefly worshipped in the latter were the ram's-headed
Khnum, god of the cataracts, and 3 Rather. Senem was not regarded
as belonging to Egypt but to Ruth, in. Ethiopia, or Tax-keno, with
which the modern Kcnds may be compared. Among the pilgrims,
whose names are found on Bigeh, were several governors of Ethiopia, who were usually royal princes. The ruins of the Temple
visible from Phila, in which the name of Ptolemy Neos Dionysus
is of most frequent occurrence, are new inhabited by an obliging
Nubian family, only a few of whose members understand anything
bat Keno. The most interesting remains here are Two Columns,
with unsculptured Ptolemaic capitals and a Portal with a carefully
built arch, adorned with a Greek ornament. Adjoining the latter is
a House built of bricks, Nile-mud, and broken stones, in which is

, The following words have been deciphered:

AIOKAHTlANONEPAONKwNSIfihlIl





