LOWER NUBIA
from Phflm to

21'? M. The voyage from Platter to dei name was until about ten
years ago easily accomplished and formed an agreeable continuation of the
Nile-route, Travellers either mused their own dhahahiyehs to be towed
up the rapids (p. 273) or proceeded in Cook's fortnightly tourishsteamer.
Circumstances were, however, completely altered by the war in the Sedan
and by the giving up of the region above Wadi Halfah in 1885. After that
date the only means of ascending the Nile to Nubia was offered by the
weekly government manner which conveyed the mails and military stores,
and performed the entire journey without stepping sufficientlg long at any
intermediate point to allow of a visit to the monuments. In i 90, however,
Messrs. Cook and Son again started aweekly service of steamers between
the first and second cataract. These'stermwheelers' (Smash, stakes)
are small (12-14 passengers) and not very comfortable, especially when there
is a large party on board. The dining-saloon is over the stern-paddle,
the whim; are confined, and the commissariat limited, Ha"! are made
at comparatively few points, though it is possible to increase these by
arrangement with the engineer, if the passengers are unanimous. Zaptiyeh
or gene d'armes accompany the steamer to protect it. The voyage lasts
for T days, he. Philee is usually reached again on the afternoon of
the "his day. The inclusive fare la 30?... or 218. for those who have ascended the Nile to Assuan as Cook's tourism,

I" Day (Monday). Start at 10 att, gertassi, and Bahelogalahsheh to Kalahsheh. Visit the two temples there.

2nd Day. via Dendfir and Geri Ensén (11mm to Dakkeh, where the
temple is mum; thence to Setripah (temple).

3rd Day. To Komako hssarAsrsLiatu xrhare the temple is inspected. If
time permit, also the tem is of Den. Ibrim.

5th Day, Excursion by land to Aimm on the 2nd cataract. The steamer
starts at noon for the return to Ahu-Simbel, where the temple is visited.

6th Day. Start at 10 mm. trom Athimhol for gorusko, arriving in
time to would the hill ewes elm-Guarani.

72!: Bay. Return to Kalbbsheh. _ SM Day (Mammy). Philae is reached
early in the morning and gunmen and luggage are transferred to the
touristrsteamer leaving Ann n on Tues. morning.

When the halls are multiplied at the request of the passengers, a different distribution of time may he adopted; as. 1st day: Debot, Kertusiq
Tlfeh, and galahsheh; 2nd day: Dakkeh (a hrs. halt), and nomake; 3rd day: rAmadah and Abu-Simbel; 4th day: ww [ imam 5m day:
Visit to the second cataract; return in the afternoon to AbmSimhei;
6th day: Korusko (1/2 hr'g. halo and Bebil'ih, where the temple is visited;
7th day: After short halts at Dendi'lr and halahsheh, reach Philae at 5 pm

It is to he hoped that the region of the Upper Nile will soon be safe
enough to permit the voyage to he made 13g dhahahiyehs once more. The
writer accomplished such a voyage in l 70, visiting all the important
monuments both going and coming. The cost, including the towing of
the dhahabiyeh up the first cataract, may he reckoned at about 1703. for
a arty of cut), which added to the cost of the journey C) to As »
an 11 £293. gives a total of 8%. for the 3 months journey; for 6 pore. "wet,
for a m. 8001., for 10 para. 10001, (comp. the Introduction, 1). thymn
dbnhs iyehl are not adapted to ascend beyond the first oataégant t alters








