300 LOWER NUBIA. History.

therefore who desire to proceed to the second cataract should stipulate in
their contract (p. anti), for a boat able to perform the entire voyage.

Nubia extends from the first cataract to Khartum, he. to N. lat.
10°, and is divided into Lower Nubia, between the first two cataracts, and Upper Nubia, above the second cataract. Upper Nubia,
which with the seam and Dirffir was formerly subject to Egypt,
is at present independent, and is not accessible for tourists. Lower
Nubia belongs to the mudiriyeh of Keneh, from which it is governed,
so far as it is not under military (British) rule. It extends to
about N. lat. 22°.

The cultivable strip, even in Lower Nubia, is seldom more than
a few hundred yards wide, while it is generally much narrower, so
that the desert approaches close up to the banks of the Nile. As a
natural consequence the population is scanty; it is estimated to be
not more than 40,000 between the first and second cataracts. The
Nile flows for the first half of the distance between the cataracts
from S. to N., for the second half from S.E. to N.W., and in Upper
Nubia from N. to S. The Monuments of Lower Nubia are nearly all
on the W. bank, where they were less exposed to hostile attack. The
most interesting is the temple ofAbu-Simbcl, the last station before
Widi Ealish. The monuments in Upper Nubia are rarer but not less
remarkable, as 6.9. those at Gebel Barks ].

History. The first cataract forms the natural boundary of Egypt.
But in early times, when the Egyptian monarchy was at its zenith,
it extended its power much farther to the S., at first as far as Ta
kompso. The district of 12 Ar i (Greek, Dodsbaschoinos),

assigned by the Egyptian rulers to the Isis ofPhila, stretched upon
both banks as far as this point, as is attested not only by Herodotus (H, 29) but also by inscriptions in the temple of Phase. If Ta
kompso (Egypt. 38.33% m m, with many variation?) be corn

rectly identified with Hierasykominos (Holy Sycamore), which lay

near the modern village of Maharahah (p. 322), the length of these

12 sehoinoi was, according to measurements by Prukeschx equal to
301/2 hrs. journey or 100 M., giving about 123/3 M. per or or
schoinos. The inscriptions speak of the entire region above Ombos,
including the Dodekaschoinos, as being in the first some of Upper

Egypt, which they name M Tu kbcnt Cl),'frontier lend'or'trowland', because the natives were armed with bows. To the S. of this
a.

lay Rush or Greek _ @, the am: i.
g
the 0th Dyn carried on








