History. LOWER NUBIA. 301

war against the Bednins (emu hernia), having as allies various
negro-tribes. from the lands M Arm, Man, Amour, Wawa, and
Kane, as we learn from the inscription of UM (new in the museum
at Gizeh). The Wawa especially are often mentioned in the inscriptions as having been fought against and subdued by the Egyptians. - The powerful monarchs of the 12th Dyn. continued the
conquest of the S. Amenemha defeated the Watch; and a son of
Usortesen L, as a stale new in Florence records, overthrew seven
names-tribes. Usortesen HI. advanced the boundary of Egypt to
Semneh; and we hear of a campaign directed against Kush in the
19th year of this king. His successor Amenemba 111. recorded at
Semneh and at Knmmeh. lying opposite, the height of the hills,
which was then 25 it higher (p. 272) than at present. A king of

the 13th Dym, (. 8 Re the reefer, is mentioned on the is
land of Argo. The kings of the 18th Dunn, however, did most of
all to extend the Egyptian might in Upper Nubia. Amenhotep 1H.
led a prosperous expedition into the land of Abbot and took many
prisoners. He built a large temple at Napata, near the fourth
cataract, and Morned the temple" of Tutmes III. at Salad. Both
there and on a statue of this king in the Louvre are recorded the
nambs of many conquered tribes of the S. The Egyptian governors
of theSe provinces new received the title of princes of Knob. The
victorious campaign of Ramses H. against the Ethiopians, and the
tribute paid by them in ebony, gold, and ivory, are not only described by Herodotus (U, 110), but in the temple of Abu-Simbel
and in numerous tombs at Kumeh are depicted negroes as prisoners
and paying tribute. While Egypt was embroiled in internal dig-,
cords, an independent priestly monarchy established itself at New
pate beside the holy mountain (Gcbcl "Bureau, whore Amman,
Mum, and Khunsn, the triad of Thebes, were worshipped. Numerous buildings were reared of which traces remain to the present
day. We are unfortunately not yet able to decipher either the
peculiar hieroglyphic: 01 the demotio writing of the Kushites, found
side by side with Egyptian hieroglyphics on these monuments.
Some important steles brought by Mariette from Grebe! Bath } record
the victorious advance of the Ethiopian prince Piankhi into Lower
Egypt, his defeat of several local kings (Tafnekht, Nimrod, (horkon, eta) probably set up bythe Assyrians, and his capture of the
city of Memphis, Shabako and Taharka, the successors of Piankbi,
repeated his exploits, to the extent at least of making themselves
masters of Upper Egypt. They founded the 25th Dyna, and in that
way united the whole of Nubia with Egypt proper. Taharka, however, was defeated by the Assyrian kings Esarhoddon and Assurbanipal (Sardanapalus), though after his death his sister's son Urn
demoni (Nut-Amen) maintained himself for some time in Thebes
and even besieged Memphis. An end was put to the jade endeme






