302 LOWER seem.



of the petty Egyptian kings by Peammetikh L (66 (4510 } In his
reign, according to the somewhat incredible story of Herodotus W,
30), 240,000 soldiers, discontented with the severity of their service,
emigrated to Ethiopia, where they settled near Merci under the
name of Antomoles or Sembrites, and did much to refine the manners of the Ethiopians. Psammetikh H. undertook an expedition
against the Ethiopians (Herod, IT, 160), to which references are
made in Greek and Phoenician inscriptions in the temple of Abuse
Simbel (p. 334). The stem at Barks }. mention two other Ethiopian
kings, Horwsiuatcf and Nostessnm, whose reigns cannot be acturately mud. The former reigned for forty years, war-red against the
Redeem and Media, African tribes of Dirffir and Abyssinia, and
erected temples; of the latter we learn that he was solemnly crowned
in the temple of Napata.

The early royal residence Napata now began to decay, and
Berna (Merci) near Begerawiyeh became the capital of the Etihiopians. From Diodoms (HI, 6) we learn that under Ptolemy Philadelphus a king of the name of Ergomms shook himself free of the
influence of the priests and caused them to be massacred in the
golden temple. This can hardly be the same Ergamenes whom we
meet at Dakkeh (p. 316), for the latter does not seem to have
flourished until the time of the Rams!) emperors. During the Ro,
man period, an Ethiopian invasion of the Thebaid led to the campaign of Patterning (25133.), in which Napata was destroyed. Queen
Candace made peace with the Reman general (Strobe XVII, 54).

Towards the close of the 3rd cent Ad). the country above Phuse
was devastated by the Blemmyes, a fierce Nubian tribe dwelling
between the Nile and the Red See, who carried their depredations
even into the Roman territory beyond Assuin. To restrain them
the emperor Diocletian summoned the tribe of the Notaries from
the oasis of elaKhirgeh (p. 348) to the Nile valley, and settled them
in the district from Elephantine upwards, while the temples of
Phila were assigned as common sanctuaries to them and to the
Blemmyes. In spite of the aid of the Nobades, the the towns of
the Commititium Romanum (Prime, Phantom, Khiris, Taphis,
end Tennis ] fell into the hands of the barbarians, who made Talmis
(Kalabsheh, see p. 307) their capital. In the dth and 5th cent.
they ravaged the Theba'id, so that in 451" A.D. Maximinus, the
general of the emperor Mansion, was forced to conclude a peace on
unfavourable terms for 100 years, which, however, only lasted until
the death of the general. Between 530 and 550 end 550 the Nebula: were
converted to Christianity; and Silica, one of their kings, damned
the Blemmyes. His victory is recorded in a Greek inscription
found in the temple of Kalabsheh (p. 308). Christianity graduaally invaded the temples of Nubia; and the Nobad king Eitpanomas and Bishop Theodorus (p. 283) of Phila, exterminated pauganism. But not long afterwards Ethiopia, like Egypt, an into










