Language. LOWER NUBIA. 303

the hands of the Mohmmedans.'Amm the stn'As conquered Nubia
in the year of the Begin 20, Dongolah was captured, and a tribute
of slaves imposed upon the Nubians. When Egypt became an independent Mohammedan kingdom under the Fatimite Mutizz in
969, the Nubians recovered their freedom. In the year of the Hegira
588 (1172 AD.) Saladin's brother captured the citadel of [ brim
and plundered the church. Similar disasters followed, and the
people only escaped compulsory conversion to Islam by heavy searinflces, the loss of the provinces nearest to Aswan, and the payment of
a pollutant. The Nubian kingdom new split up into various petty
states, among which Sounds, founded in i by the negro--tribe
of the Fungis, rose to importance and held away over the provinces
of Shendi, Barber, and Dongclah. This, however, was of no long
duration. Dongolah was frequently invaded by the robber tribe of
the Shegiyeh.w1sma'ilPaska, son of Mohammed'dli, made himself
master of all these provinces in 1821. He conquered Dcngolah without opposition, defeated the Shégiyeh at Korti, and acquired Sennar
also. This conquest, however, cost Isma'il his life. At a festival
given by him at Shendi, a but in which he had been seemed was set
on fire, and he and his companions perished in the flames. But this
incident did not prevent the complete subjugation of the Sfidan,
which was converted into an Egyptian province, with the ntsm1yfounded Ehartum as its eapitah Dtritr, too, was conquered and
annexed in 1874. But the war with Abyssinia (187546), a revolt
in Darfdr, the rotten state of the Egyptian finances, the rebellion of
Arabi Pasha, the victorious advance of the Mahdi, and the death
of the devoted General Gordon (J an. 1885) led to the loss of all the
Egyptian possessions to the S. of wan Haifa }:, in spite of the British
occupation of Egypt 1882) and the belated expeditions to Dongolah
and to Kharthm -: It is but too probable that these districts
will remain beyond the influence of Egypt or of Eur-spoon civilian-w
tion for a long time to come.

POPULATION AND LANGUAGE. i The inhabitants of the upper
valley of the Nils, even from below the first cataract, are called
Barabra (Barbers) by the Arab population of Egypt. A. more can
curate name for them is Nations, and as the aboriginal inhabitants
of Africa they must be distinguished from the Karmic tribes who
immigrated from Asia at a very early period, partly to the N. via
the isthmus of Suez, and partly to the 8., across the strain of Bib
el-hamlet, into NE. Africa. Of these immigrants the former became
the inhabitants of what is new modern Egypt, the latter (also
Kushites according to Lepsius) were the ancestors of the Begah
tribes, who settled to the E. of the Nile between that river and
the Red Sea. The Begah tribes also include the rAbdbdeh on the N.,

t See also the introductory remarks on the Modern Egyptians, Vol. I.
pp. IN seq, especially paragraphs 3 and 5, on the Beduins, _and Benbers.,








