304 Route 30. needs. 011136112. lt'mm mm

the new », adjoining these, and the Hadmdoeh farther to the S.
These tribes inhabit the region known as the Ethni. Lepsins ascribes
to the ancestors of the Began the? numerous inscriptions that are
found tur far up as Morse, both in picture » writing mumbling
Egyptian hisregiyphies and in a demotic alphabetic Writing, which
suggests an independent literature. A irifhstent view it held by
He Brugsch, who has made within the last few years the first attempt
to decipher these Moroiti t inscriptions, as they ate tailed.
He indium; to the opinion that they have some connection with
the Nubi'en'tongue..+ Three Nubian dialects are recognized, according to their geographical distribution, the Kenna, Ham, and
Dongoiah. The first is spoken in the district between Assets and
Sebt'i'sh, where it is succeeded by an Ambit: strip, at the beginning
of the desert-routes to Ann flamed on the S. and to Widi'Olhhi
on the B. Thence 13 Hannah, above the third cataract, the Maha,
idiom prevails, while the Dangelah dialect is spoken from. Hannah
throughout the province of Don-golah to Gehel Dégah; The most N.
and the most S. of those dialects have a closer affinity with each
other than either has to the central Mahas, fact upland by
Diocletian's transference of the Dongeiese inhabitants of the oasis
of el-Kuta to the district above Aswan (p. 302). The Mahas
apply the name (letter to both the N. and S. dialects..







30. From Philw to 1ra1tashts1L
Comp. the Map at 17.39. V
881/51 N. Tho MML 8mm" amps mly at the stations of (51112;. halt), Kalabsheh (1hr.'s hall), and Abe [ for (where the night is
s an.

p As we lawn Plum! (Steam, 9. 379), we have a fine View at the
pylons of the temple of { His and the other buildings, and of the
rocks of the island of Bigot. On both sides at the-" riser rise lefty
granite cliffs. To the left, the ruins sf et-Heshhtd and than the
tomb of a shékh. Beyond Bigeh lies the island of 21.11am, separated from the W. bank by a rocky channel. At $ 611" our
course bends to the S. "afterwards returning to its s, direction
The scenery becomes less wild, and a narrow strip hf verdum He'
pears on each bank. ~--To the W. is the Gate! Sheen-wels- Weir.
12 M. Debit, on the W. bank A paved route, 230 passes long,
leads from the Nile to the gate in the girdle-wall of the Temple.
On the bank of the stream several large blocks have been "built into



i- Two elaborate works have appeared on thekNuhien language: one
by Reinisch, Die Now Sprache, 1. Theil, Grammatik und Texte, 11. Theil
Nnhisehulmutsches and Dentscthnbisehes Wdrterhnch. Vienna." 187
(not absolutely reliable for pronunciation and gunman); the other, by
R. Lemma, Nubiache Grammatik, with an introduction on the (mph:
and languages of Africa, Berlin, 1880. To the letter important ook, a
'held'""'"'"" and valuable work, an deampmm ia mnummbly in
e.








