to Keishahch. KERTASSI. 30. Route. 305

a wall. The first doorway, about 25 ft. high, has no sculptures;
on the second doorway, about 50 ft. farther back, appears the
winged tum-diss The second pylon shows a much damaged Greek
inscription of Ptolemy Philometor and his consort. in a straight
line, "ft. farther, is a third pylon; and 42 ft. beyond that is the
smell temple proper { 65 ft. deep and 40 it. bread), with a side--' chamber on the left (8.) side. The templeu facade, with its four
columns, was thrown down in 1868 by earthquake, which also
destroyed the first room The latter contained a dedication from

ca.%
the Emperor Tiberius (J Q a fi Tibet's), and the Autokrator Kisres

(Augustus?) to the gods of Debot



a _
(wrap. the Hebrew m; but, house). The names of the Roman emperors also appear on the door to the main chamber of the temple,
though at the top of the inner side of this door is the dedication inn

scription of a native king (N171 MN At en racism.



sotcp cu m At'n khcmmou ankk



tcta mar est. This At khcmmon, like the Ergamenes occurring at
Dakkeh (p. 316), was one of the dynasty of native kings who
reigned in Nubia during the period of the Ptolemies and the Roman
ampere". On each of the sides (right and left) of this apartment
are eight scenes in two rows one above the other, representing King
Athhtmunon making offerings to the gods of the place, Osiris, Isis,
and Horns, and to the gods of the region of the cataracts. The
sanctuary behind contains a granite naos, broken in two, dating
from Euergetes IL Phyekon and Cleopatra.

A stale of the 12th dyn. (Ranubkau Amenemba Ir0, found here
and now in the Berlin museum, proves that Debit must have been a
very early settlement. The Roman Parcmbole (fortified camp; p. 292)
must have been situated in this neighbourhood, for in the Itinerarium Antonini, a list of Roman military stations, the distance
from (Contra) Syene to Parembole is given at 16 Roman miles or
about 12 Eng. miles. As a matter of fact, the remains of an ancient
fortification are found near Debdt.

At Dinars" (W. bank) is an ancient wall; and on the E. bank
farther on is the substructure of a temple. The island of Merges
(Markos), next passed, has some unimportant ruins

To the right (W bank) next appears the (151/9 M) small temple
of Kertassi, an attractive building, recalling the hypzethral temple
at Philae (p. 285). At the entrance, which faces N., only two columns are new standing, with the cow-headed Isis and Mother
and a house surmounted by a Urmususerpent (Hat-her house of

anuna' 3 Upper Egypt -... _





