306 Route 30. From mug

Home) as at Denderah (p. 80) and Philm. Four column: are also
left on each side, united by means of a building between them,
which has a semi-portal on the W. side, farthest from the Nile.
The capitals of the side-columns resemble those of the front columns of the hypmthral temple on Philea. They are lotnswoalyn
capitals, framed at the top with leaves springing from buds, while
beneath are the usual five annuli or rings. Only a single arose"
beam new rests upon the beams running lengthwise in this little
temple, which cannot have been more than sheet 25 ft. square.

About 10 min. to the S. is a double girdle-wall of large hewn
stones, stretching to the Nile, and furnished with a gateway. A
flight of steps leads down to the river. The pylon-like gateway
appears to have been faced by another of the same kind. The wall
has been taken for the remains of a Roman permanent camp. An
ancient road leads thence to the S.W. to some:; Quarries,
which contain about 60 Greek retire inscriptions (and one demotic)
dating from the Roman imperial epoch (Septimins Severus, Germ »
calls to Gordian). There are also two busts and a carefully constructed niche, with the winged. sun-disc above it, apparently in"
tended to hold a statue. The inscriptions have been carved mostly
by priests of the Games (lapses 16pm, also dpxlepeoq, .9;
etc.), a word which Frans explains (Gory. Grace. 111,461? to mean the carriage of stones under priestly management from the
quarries for the purpose of building temples.

At all events in the inscription to the left of the had of the bust
(in Lepsius 373) a priest of the Gamma, named Gratis, son of Praetorian,
record: that he had dos etched 110 Money for the work of late of Miles,
ale. rehably for one oft e later temple: (perhaps the one next the stream
out o W. side). Considerable sums were paid for the privilege of holding
this rohably lucmtive offUs Eight tablets (the four earlier beside the
left not, the four later beside the right best) record that a certain Gates
Dioramas (Julius) Hacienda, who is probably represented by both the
buster, held this office eight times, for which first and last be expended
no less than 300 pieces of gold (ypesoda), equal to about 2751. in modern
currency. The years of his office are given: the 18th and mud. years (of
Septimius Severus and his to-regents Carmella), the 2nd of Heliogabalns
or Alexander Severus, the 12th (of the last named That; the lot (of
Maximinns), the 3rd (of Gordian), and the 2nd and 6th o Philips!" Aruba },
is. in all a period of about X) yam, between see and 249 A..

A tablet of the 19th year of Cams"; (198 AD.) records that a riest
of the Games (erected) the gnomon (sun-dial) on the pylons nap rod
Eliseo, to. probably to determine the right time for sending of the stones.

as found a sun-dial. in the Quarries of germs.

Among the deities worshipped here besides Isis, were a goddess
named 290121? me f8ruptiehis) and a god named Ilos, osswotovx
fPursepmunisj, probably native Ethiopian gods.







On the right CW.) bank lies the considerable village of UntreaEarshot.

41/2 M. (W. bank) Tafeh occupies the me of Tophie, mentioned
in the Itinerarium Antonini. Two temples are mentioned by earlier
travellers as being here, but in 1890 me. Eisenlohr u Able to dis





