m gamma. EALABSHEH. 30. Route. 307

cover one only, at the NE, and of the village. The entrance, facing
the 8., consists of a central portal (closed) and smaller adjoining
door. Its only sculptured ornament is the winged sun-disc above
the central door. In the interior of the temple, which has a substructure of dressed masonry, are four standing columns, with
tastefully carved capitals, and farther on are various ruinous chambers. To the W. are the remains of some large and solid structures.
m--At the foot of the mountains to the S. of the village, not far
from the river, are some scanty remains of enclosures and the angle
of a wall, in which perhaps are to be identified the traces of the
other and larger temple, which was still standing in 1870. On the
hill above is a castellated building to which climbers may ascend.
011 the opposite (E) bank lay Contra Taphis, which bu left no
remains of importance.

Beyond Tafeh the dark shining rocks advance close to the riverbank, forming a gloomy gorge, known as Bdb chKoiobshch, in the
middle of which, on the E. bank, are some houses with plantations
of palms. The navigation of this reach is somewhat dangerous,
owing to the frequent bends of the river and the numerous islands.
On one of the islands are some mine. On the right (WO, beyond
the gorge, appears the large m

T M. Temple of Kalabaheh, situated a little below the tropic of
Cancer (N. lat 23°31'3") The magnificent constellation of the
Southern Cross may be seen hence onwards (best between 2 and 4
sum in Jan and Fab.) Cook's touristmeteemers spend the first
night here, and the traveller has time to visit one if not both of the
temples in the evening The ancient name of Kalabshch was Tul
m "flu" mis, written :3 and ma Tarmac, in More »



. .3 m8 8
glyphics. It existed as early as the lSth Dyn. and was perhaps

Ra iiii Wm, who is

represented on the inner E wall of the second court, before Khem,
presenting wine and milk to the local deity Handrails

, a son of Horus. Beside him appears



: _, _ \
one of the Ptolemies handing the sign of the possession of a field
to Isis, Mandulis, and another goddess (perhaps Neith l). Although
this representation dates from a late Roman period, it shows that
Amenhotep was regarded as the founder and one of the Ptolemies
as the restorer of the temple. The cartouche also of Tutmes Ill.,
the predecessor of Amenhotep IE, is found on a granite statue lying
before the entrance of the temple. The above-mentioned Ptolemy
is probably deter 11., who appears in several reliefs in the small
temple in the N. E angle of the passage round the outside of the
large temple. Talmis was long the capital of the Blcmmyrs (p. 302),





