308 Route M: aa: :--: .me'mzo



who were, about 540 At, defeated by Silks, the Christian king of
the Nobades (p. 302) who celebrated his victory in an inscription
on one of the pillars of the temple at Kalabsheh (see below).

The extent Large Temple was built under the Roman emperor
Augustus and his successors. The numerous inscriptions (in Greek,
with the exception of one in Latin hexameters) date from the reigns
of Domitian, Trajan, Hadrian, and Anioninus Fine, and of the later
emperors Alexander Severus and Philippus; they express the revs-rence of the soldiers of the Spanish, Imman, end Theben cohorts
for the great god Mandulis.

Including the inner girdle-wall the temple is 235 ft. long and
"71/2 it. broad. There is also an outer giralo-wau, with small
temples at the NE. and SAM angles. Before the last stand the
columns one behind the other. The inner girdle-wall joins the
massive pylon, forming a continuous building with it. In front of
the pylon is a narrow platform, necked by a flight of steps beginning at the Nile, then by a gated passage about 10011. long and
25 N broad, leading to a second flight of 20 stays. The entrance to
the temple is blocked by fallen stones and the dwellings of natives,
who have settled all about the entire temple. In the interior of the
pylon are stairs and chambers, as at Edfu o. 244). On passing
through the door of the pylon, which is not in a straight line with
the rest of the building but at a slight angle with the axis of the
temple, we find ourselves in e fore-court, 65 ft. long, the floor of
which is quite covered with fallen blocks of masonry. Of the double
row of columns which once stood here, probably in h couples on each
side, only a single column, on the left side, is new area. On each
side of this court four narrow chambers have been constructed in
the wall; and a door on the right communicates with the exterior
passage round the temple. The walls of the entrance to the next
room retire towards the top in the manner of a pylon. Here on the
right the abovemmentioned decree of Bike is inscribed in bad Greek.
On the nearest column is along inscription in the Ethiopian demotic character, hitherto undeciphered, which may perhaps he a replica
or repetition of the decree..

The En lish translation of Silko's im ortant Greek inscription is as
follows'I, ilko, sub-king (fluctuated of he Nobades and all Ethiopians,
came twice to Talmis (Kala shah) and Tephie (Tafeh). I fought against
the Blemmyes and God gave me the victory over them, three to one.
Again I conquered and took possession of their cities, I fortified myself
there the first time with my troupe. I overcame them and they sued to
me. I made peace with them and they swore to me by the images of
their gods, and I treated their oath, for they were brave men. I manual
once more into the upper district; Since I became sub-king, I go no
longer after the other kings but before them. And those who seek to
strive with me, I do not allow to remain in their land unless the bag for
pardon from me. For in the Iowa: to
Talmis. And I laid waste the other aiming, the up or Noland regions,

when they sought to strive with me. Tho ruler, a the other peoples,
who seek to strive with me, I do not allow to seat phonics } in the








