to gramme BET EL~WALLL 30. Route. 309

shade, if they do not how before me; and they may not drink wine in
their house. For whosoever raise themselves against me, them i deprive
of their wives and children'.

On the pillar between the two columns to the right of the entrance to the main temple is another Greek inscription. This is a
decree of Aurelius Besarion, also named Amonius, military governor
of 01111705 and Elephantine, ordering the owners of swine to remove
their animals from the holy Talmis. It probably dates from the
year 248-9 AD .--- On the left side of the elegant tyr-ts-dirty,

:1
appears the Pharaoh (probably Augustus), over whom Thoth
m

and Horns hat (or behest) pour the symbols of a peaceful life - $ -'1.

Beside him stands Hor-si-isi (Home, son of Isis), the lord of Talmis.
Leaving now the entrance-wall with its four columns behind us,
we find ourselves in the main building of the temple,. the portion
proper, which is 40 it. deep and 66 ft. broad. This portion is considerably higher than the three rooms behind it, from which a
double staircase ascends to the roof (new fallen) of the portion. It
has four, or including those of the entrance wall six, elegant columns "on each side, with varying capitals. Only two, on the left,
are new standing in the interior. 0n the E. wall the emperor appears saerifleing to the gods of Talmis, and adjoining this scene is
the above-mentioned relief of Amenhotep 11. presenting wine and
milk to Khem-Ammon. m The next three rooms are small (171/2 it
deep and 40 ft. mag, and have sacrificial scenes on their walls.
Each probably contained two columns, those in the second room
being still preserved. The staircase to the roof ascended to the left
from the first room, On the outside of the W. back-wall of the
temple arevarious well-preeerved representations, including the goddess Isis with Ptolemy Caesarion, son of Julius Caesar and Cleopatra.
The temple, like that of Edfu, is surrounded by a passage, widening towards the rear and entered from the fore-court by doors on both
sides; and, as mentioned above, there is also a second and wider
passage outside the first one, with which it has communication by
means of a door on the left side. This outer passage could be closed
by means of doors. The whole structure is a faithful reproduction
of an early Egyptian temple, but dates from Roman times.

20 min. to the N., is much more noteworthy than the large Roman
erection at Kalabsheh. The way to it leads along the verge of the
mountain, level at first, but finally ascends steeply. The temple
consists of a vestibule, of which only the side walls are now standing, a main chamber, entered by a central and two side doors, and a
small adytum, adjoining the latter. In the vestibule our interest is
excited by the warlike scenes on the side-walls. These indicate



