so. BET EL-WALLI. From Praise

that the temple was dedicated not only to the worship of the gods
Amman-Ra, lord of Nubia, Horns, Isis, and the gods of the cataracts
Khnum, Anuke, and Sari, but also to the memory of the victories
gained by Ramses the Great over the tribes of the N. (Tehennu) and
of the S. (Kushites). The victories over the N. tribes are depicted
on the N. well; those over the S. tribes on the S. wall.

We turn first to the right (N. wall). The Tokenne, a tribe of the Libyan Mock had settled to the W. of Egypt. They were pointed beards,
and were distinguished by having the hair not smooth across the brown,
with long pendant side-locks. We begin our inspection of the reliefs
at the end to the left. Here appears the Pharaoh, seated in a name,
holding in one hand a long stafi' bent at the top, and in the other the

symbol of role T hair, while on his head he wears a crown of bull's

hum, to which eight stsrperWdiadetas m .mchem M his teet

is a lion. In the upper row, Amonhianemif CAmmon at his right hand'),
one of his sons, armed with a bow, leads three bound prisoners to him.
In the lower row is a fan-bearer followed by ahead of soldiers. Adjacent
is the inscription:'The prince speaks, who is before His Majesty, Hail
to thee, Oh good and beloved prince, son of Amman, having proceeded
from his limbs. Thou goes: out into the country. Thou art like Ra above,
who travels on the horizon. Then tansst the inhabitants of Egypt. Thou
art in the body of thy contemporaries. Thou wearest the ilieerent helmets.
Then art on annihilator of the ill-doors in the body of thy mother leis. Then
consent both halves of Home to become green. Years like Tum, prince
of both lands, like Ptah ta tenen, red Egypt under my feet, Khara (Syria), Kashi (Ethiopia) in thy hand. The land of More (Egypt) rejoices, O
prince, because then hast widened its boundaries'..... The following scene
shows no the king on the point of cutting off the hair, or perhaps even
the head, of one of the Tehenno, with a sickle-shaped knife. His dog
(entire set oath) springs upon the kneeling fee. The king is here called
a'strong ties, the lord of the sword, who binds the rebellions lands of
the Tehennn, and cuts the nine alien peoples in pieces with his sword
and caste them under his feet. _ In the third relief, the king in his
chariot aims a blow at two foes whom he holds by their hair, and presses
hard upon his anemic: who are armed with spears. He is compared to
the war-god Menta, lord of Thebes. He next appears on foot before a
fortress, and on the battlements above is the prince (65171599, whom
Ramses seizes by the hair to hill him. On the lower battlements stand
men and women suing to me munch. of whom an inscription says,
'there is no other like Baal, O prince, his true son to all eternity'. A
woman is letting a child down from the castle to save it from death, a
man throws himself headlong down, while one of Ramses' followers is
beating in the clam: with an axe. - In the last scene on this side the
king appears with lettered enemies some led to him by cards.

The reliefs on the 8'. Side, no fees interesting, relate to the subjugation of the Kushites, althon h the inscription beside the king reads'the
ruler of Egypt, who has as dead the nations, and made the harden! us
he chose among the Retennn (Syrians and Assyrians)'. Here again we
see the king's sons in two rows ringing the captured booty to the Pheraoh. In the upper row, Amshionemif, the king s eldest son, points to a
stand adorned with flowers and leaves on which men kneel in. supplies »
tion, while rings (of old n and skins hang from it, next is Ammonium,
the king's son of Ken 2, and behind him rings. bags, weapons, panther
skins, shields, chairs, fans, and many other articles. The lower row is





1' introduced by three officials, carrying the l and g and among







