to Katobsheh. BET EL-WALLI. 30. Route. 3"

is again the king's son Assessment. An Egy tian bears a pole with rings
and skins, and then in both rows approac negroes, some bound and
others free, with all hind: of animal: - monkeys. I gim me, a giraffe, antelopes,
a lion, cow; with twisted horns, greyhounds, watches, and panthers.
The degrees are unmistakable, not only on account of the swarthy hue
of their skins but also on account of their excellently reproduced facial
characteristics. Another scene shown us the king in his chariot, followed
by his sons, man whom Kinsmen appears (lower row), launching an
arrow against the eei negro", some of whom are already prostrate on
the ground. The worm ed father is brought back to his wife and children, and a meal is cooked for him. A monkey am upon one of the trees
peculiar to this region, with heart-shaped leaves and fascicular fruit.

These scenes serve as excellent illustrations to the life of king Sea
sodsis (Ramses IL), as related by Diodorus (I. 53 seq.) Sesoosis was first
sent by his father with an army into Arabia, and succeeded in subduing
the geople of that land, hitherto invincible. He was then despatched to
the. regions and made himself master of the greater part of Libya,
while still but a youth. On his father's death he assumed the kingdom.
He gfepneti a mighty on and marched first (i. 55) to the S. against
the Ethiopian. He conquered the country and imposed upon it a tribute
of ebony, gold, and hairy

1116 temple proper, hewn in the rock, is entered by three doors.
The central and highest, is rounded at the top; the smaller doors
to the right were obviously not made until after the wall had been
covered with sculptures. On the inner side of both of these side
doors is Ramses represented as a traveller, with a long staff, and
saying'1 come to thee, Amman-nulls, I am thy son, eta' On the

back of the two entrencempillars is the king receiving the symbols



c:
of life from Home, lord of a Mom (the name of a temple

near Dakkeb), and on the right from Tum. The two representations
on the right and left of the entrance-wall are unusually fine; on
the left the king holds a negro (Kath), and on the right a Tehennu,
by the hair, and smites them with his weapon. In each case the
single enemy symbolizes the entire nation; so that the inscription
beside the right scene reads: pet pet ment What,'he smites the
people of the N.' The architrave supported by two columns has a
due silent. The Doria commits are noted, and the abacus bears the
name of Ramses H. (similar columns at the tombs of Benihasan,
see p. 12). The builder's inscription is on the srchitrave. In the
right half the king is called a son of Khnum, who formed himself
on the potter's wheel with his own hand (Khnum is the creator of
men). In the left half are the words:'The king of the mm defend" (Gr. Sour), who sacrifices to the cycle of
the gods, built the temple for his father's father, and renewed the
buildings of the temple'. By'father's father' the god Khnum may
he meant or the king's actual grandfather Ramses L On the right
side-wall Ramses IL, conducted by Ammo, proffers wine to Khnum
and Beti, the gods of the cataracts; and on the left well he offers
incense to Home, lord of Beheni (opposite Widi lialfah, p. 341),
and to Isis-Sells with the scorpion on her head. On the beek-well
similar homage is paid to Ammon-Ra. In the recess on the right








