312 Route 31. momt) w From Kotebsheh

the king sits between Khnum and hooks, and in that on the left
between Hams, lord of Bek, and the cow-headed Isis. The colours
of these pictures are well-preserved. The doors to the little: sanctuary, which bore the name Raussrma sehotsp racism, is.'Ramses
offering to the gods', and the sanctuary itself are decorated with
various inscriptions. The king, staff in hand, is conducted, on the
right by Sati, on the left by Mahet. 0n the wall to the right of the
door, Anuke, mistress of him, oh'ers her breast to the king, on the

left Isis, mistress of the land of Khent m g Q, does the

same. Each calls herself his mother. Isis say: that she bestows
upon him firmness along with her milk, so that he is said to have
been destined from his mother's breast to long life and mighty
deeds. [ Diodorus relates that Hephaestus appeared to the king's
father, announcing to him that the new-born babe would subdue
the whole world; and in the long inscription at Abydos Ramses is
said to have done great deeds while still a child ] On the sidewalls are scenes of homage to the king, with offerings piled up
upon tables bearing the oartouches of Ramses H. At the back is a
recess with three obscure figures, perhaps Ptah, Amman, and
the king.

Comp. the Map, p. 304

231/2 M. On the voyage to (7 M.) Abu Her (W bank) we pass
between low rocky banks, causing rapids. The mail-steamer spend &
the first night after Shelli } at Abu Hex, starting next morning at
4 am. Above this point vegetation almost ceases and the scenery
becomes desert. To the right appears the
b' M. Temple of Denier, dating entirely from Roman times It
consists of a handsome pylon and of the temple proper, supported
by two columns, about 30 ft. farther back. The pylon stands upon
a solid platform of masonry, 14 ft. broad, The
portal, single instead of double as at Edfu and Phila, rises at the
back of this platform, surrounded by a low well. At the top is the
winged sua-di'se, and within and on the front (13.) and back (W.)
the pylon is adorned with representations of the emperor sacri
ficing to various gods. The emperor, here called simply

Pir-iiii, Pharaoh, though within the temple he is named Autokrotor
Kisses, is probably Augustus, as Tiberius, Nero, and other succeeding emperors are usually designated by their names.

These sacrificial scenes are particularly interesting because
they make known to us not only some of the native gods, whose
names may be of importance for our knowledge of the native language, but also the names of various native princes such as the










