to pm. DENDOR. 31. Route. 313



Nobad hing Silica met at Kalabsheh (p.308), who continued to rule
subject to Roman. supremacy Thus in. the first scene under the
door-lintel the Pharaoh is seen before two personages, of whom the

first, an Osiris A 0:11
5 .q q Stand.

scribed as ma-Klum, to, as dead, and is named
q < 23 » Sir (the Nubian word for prince)







ntc hot, which is perhaps the ancient name of 1hsndilr,

and with the Her (me hat hot) added in the lowest representation to the right, approaches also the modem name Pethst



was probably a deceased native prince; and Pihar

brother, who stands behind him wearing a Urmusuflllet and no
crown, was probably another. The latter stands in the recess at the
back of the cella before Isis, mistress of Abaton and Pilak. Like
Petast he is called the son of Roper, with the addition of

ham firm-r
h Host or Heat in the holy mountain?" Mm which

perhaps means'interred' or may be a title A Pihar is mentioned
twice as Phripohor in the demotic inscription in the temple at
Donddr, as deciphered by Revillout

In the second (middle) scene to the left on the front of the py-u



ion a god Arpcsnefsr (perhaps pronounced sashes
nefer, see below, with bulls horns like Rheum, stands before Tefnut. Perhaps Arpesnefer is the native name for Khnum (or for
Osiris Unnofer, arpes = on). m We pass through the pylon and
find ourselves in from of the elegant facade of the temple, only
13 ft wide, and crowned with the winged sun-disc (baht!) and the

symbols of endurance and fertility Uaa (eyes) are repro


sented on the shoot of the two columns with palm-capitals. To the
right and left of the central entrance (at the sides of which were
once probably balustrades, new destroyed) are crowned snakes
coiling round a staff, flowers, etc. The pillars to the right and left
exhibit sacrificial scenes (three on each side): above, to the right,
is the emperor (Autolrrctor Kisses) before Patriot, son of Kupar;

below, to the right, the same before m drhcamfer, to the
left, before Horns, and before Thoth and Isis. -.8--Th temple is






