to Dams. GERF HusEN. Route. 315

(the crook and the scourge), and wearing an apron with a lion's
head. The figures of Osiris, especially the lower parts, are somewhat roughly executed. On each side of the chamber are four recesses, each with the king, variously clad, standing between two
deities. The wall--spaces above and between these recesses are oocnpied with representations of the king making shortage, the king
being depicted alone in the lower row, and the god to whom he
offers worship in the upper row.

Left (5) Side from the entrance: l, The king with incense before
Ammon-Ra; 2. before Ra with the hawk's head and. sun-disc; 3. before
Tum; 4. offering incense before Fish in his name; 5. before he with the
crown; 6. before Thoth, with the ibis'h head. In the four recesses below:
i. The king between Amman-Ea and Math; 2. between Horns, lord of Bek,
and Home, lord of Beheni; 3. between Fish and mum; d. between Ptah
and Sekhet, the lion-headed loved one or Fink. Here and elsewhere in
this temple two forms of Ptah are distimshed; one shows him bare
headed, the other with the headdress

The upper semen on the Right (NO Van are partly destroyed, but we
can make out the king before Ra, Tum, Monte, and Khnum. In the tea
ceases (right) is the king between Harmachis end Jusas; between Home,
lord of Earn (Abu-Simbel?) and Isis, mother of the gods; between Nefertum and Satin, between Khnum and hanks.

On the back-wall, to the right and left of the entrance to the next
room, are two large scenes. To the left is the king before Ptah, before
Ramses himself and the goddess Esther, with the cow's head, with area:
home, between which are two feathers as in the headdress of Fish (see
above). To the right, the king appears before Fish in the form of a
mummy, before the deified Ramses, and Sekhet seated on a throne.

The following room, the Soiree, about 36 ft. wide though only
17 ft. deep, is entered by a proportionately small door, on the left
side of which is the king before Ptah. The ceiling is supported by
two square pillars. To the right and left two oblong recesses (see
PI. p. 314) run off from this chamber, and at the back are three
other recesses, the central and largest of which is the Sanctuary On
the pillars the king appears worshipping various deities. On the
N. side of the right pillar he is named'Beloved of Ra--Harmachis

in the land of Wawa' W, a name for Nubia





a:
seven gods, Amman, Ptah,

Rather. At the back of the sanctuary is a recess with four seated
figures, representing (from the left) Ptah, the deified Ramses, th
with the headdress (see above), and Humor with the cow's head.








