316 Route "DAKKEH. From gamut

0n the left bank of the Nile, above Geri lingers, are the considerable ruins of Sebagdmh. The village of Kim; (E. bank), opposite
Geri Eugen, ha been conjecturally identified with Kathie, mentioned in the Greek inscription of the officers of Pee at.. at AbusSimbel (p. 334). At the village of Koatamnch, on the E. bank, are
some ancient walls. Our course bands to the W. and leads past
granite orags to---- - *

101/2 M. Dakkeh, on the W. bank. Nook'e steamer halts long
enough to permit a visit to the temple. ] Dakkeh is the ancient



melodic, hiarog U P-atetet, the'House of Selk' or of
"wen-HQ Q
the'Scorpion', an animal that is here remarkably common. The
Roman general Petronius defeated the Ethiopians at Pselchis in
'23 All, on his campaign to Napata (p. 302). Dakkeh early be »
came the site of a temple; Prof. Eisenlohr found a stone here with
the name of Amcncmha (new at Heidelberg). In the embankment
leading to the N. from the pylon, in the axis of the present temple,
stones of earlier buildings have been used, several with the cartouche of Tutmes III. (which occurs also on a column) and Seti l.
Gau's theory that there was formerly another edifice to the right,
almost as large as the present one to the left, seems insufficiently
supported, though suggested by existing remains. The present
temple was built by the native king Ergamenes (the inner temple
c, comp. Pi. p. 317), Ptolemy IV. Philopator (Sekos B), and Ptolemy IX. Euergetes IL (the pronaos A), and it was completed by a

Roman emparor l'inu't (Pharaoh), by which name Augustus
W

is usually understood. It has already been related o. 302) that
the Nubian sub-king Ergamenes, in the reign of Ptolemy H. Phila-v
delphus freed himself from the priests at Napata, causing them to
be murdered in the temple there. Names of such Nubian subkings, especially under the Roman empire, are found on the Ethiopian buildings and in the demotic inscriptions at Philae, Kalabsheb,
and Dakkeh. It is somewhat improbable that this same Ergamenes
was the builder of the temple of Dakkeh, for tho Ergamenes of the

g m __,
temple IS represented before Pit-ac: (Pharaoh) andhnuhe, and
W

the title of'PiriW is usually employed only by the Roman emperors (Augustus, Tiberius i). and often along with'Autokrator Kisw
res', as in the innermost chamber D as well as in the front chamber
A at Dakkeh. On the other side, there are proofs that the chamber
D must be more ancient than the two front rooms, which existed
even under Ptolemy PhilOpator and Euergetes II.

The present Temple Buildings of Dakkeh embrace the massive
pylons and the temple proper, lying 40 it. behind them, both face
ing the N. (30" E. deviation). The whole stands upon) substantial



