318 Route 31.

the roof, and there are interior chambers as at Edfn (p. 949). A
small door in the gateway between the pylons also admits to the
pylon on the right. There are no hieroglyphics on the outside
of the pylons, the only place in which they are found being the
inner walls of the central gateway. On the left side here is an unnamed king making offerings to the god Therm with the quadruple
crown, and to Tefnut and Esther, while Isis appears below. The
sculptures on the right side are destroyed. Numerous inscriptions,
chiefly Greek though some are demotic, are found both on the outside of the pylons and in the central gateway.

The entrance of the Temple has two columns with palm-eap1tale. The portal has been partly destroyed, and the partition walls
crowned with serpents, which connect the columns with the sloping
buttresses, have been broken through the middle, and the representations upon them defaced. On the left (E) side the templeuwall
adjoins a wall of dressed masonry, which formerly enclosed the entire temple, forming a kind of court; while another wider girdle-wall, new disappeared, seems to have begun at the pylons. A path
constructed of ancient hewn stones led from the pylon to the temple,
but this has been destroyed except close to the temple, so that we
have to climb up to the platform. The first portion of the temple,
the Frances (PL A), 241/2 ft. broad and 17 ft. deep, is covered
with huge flagstones, placed lengthwise in the direction of the
temple axis. The frieze beneath this roof bears the dedicationinscriptions of the pronaos, that in the middle being a much damaged Greek inscription between two winged serpents with royal
crowns. The following words are still legible :--
bncp pantheon mole....... slap-q;

brow cosmetics.....' *. h c
From this we gather that the pronaos was dedicated to Hermes
Paotnuphis m the 35th year of Euergetes IL (136 B. C.), by that king
and his wife and sister Sleepatra. Paotnuphis occurs as Pautnuphis
in another inscription, placed by Saturninus Veteranus Aquila,
who executed the gliding in the temple. The two-line hieroglyphic
inscription, on each side of the Greek, corresponds with the latter
to the left, Worhat (referring to the adjoining protecting vulture
with outspread wings), the great god,... protect thy beloved son
Ptulmis Energetes and his sister and his wife Cleopatra, the divine
Euergetes, beloved of Thoth Penubs'; to the right the last phrase
is altered to'beloved of leis, mistress of Pilak and the southern
gods'. On the right Horhnt is described as dwelling in the northern

house, and on the left as dwelling in the southern



house. The side-pillars on the right and. left bear scenes of worship,
on the left addressed to Shu and Tefnut, Thoth and Nehemaaut,
Khnum, and Hathor, on the right to Amman-Ra and. Mirth, Home





