to Dam. DAKKEH. _ "31. Route. 319

Ind Rather, and Osiris and Isis. Attention should be paid to the
two lowest representations, which are double scenes showing the
king with lotus and papyrus-plants, the queen with bouquets of

flowers, followed by the Nile-god Hapu and by Sukkot H, goddess
of the fields, who carries sacrificial cakes and ferric of various kinds
and is accompanied by a small bull. On the partition-wall, new
partly destroyed, to the left, the king stood before Tboth Peuubs,
whose figurers still visible. He is here named lord of Pselk





To the right stood the king and queen worship »:
unrem--C? a Q
ping before Isis, daughter of Seb and Nut. Behind Isis is her cartouche, like that of a queen;'may she protect King Euergetes'. On
the front of the two columns are not only the names of the founders
of the presses, but also those of their ancestors, the divine Adolphi,
Energetm, Philopatores, Epiphanes, and the divine Philometor;
while one of them is dedicated to the memory of Thoth of pe.
nabs, the other to that of Isis, mistress of Pink (Philae). The rowpresentations on the back of these columns are very remarkable.
On the right side is a cynocephalus (symbol of Thoth), with an
object like a sistrum in its hands, on the left side is an entirely

un-Egyptian seated figure of a dark bearded man, with a quintuple
headdress, playing upon the harp. This is the figure of the Ethi
opim god Sept or Bee, who smites the enemy. The interior

decoration of this hall dates from Augustus, who is here distinguished by the eertouehee ofAutokrator Kisres Our. on the back of the

partition-well) as well as by the name Q () (e.g, on the side-walls).

On the left side-wall is an interesting picture, representing the
Pharaoh proffering to the god of writing (Thoth) a palette, which
is home by figures of Isis and Nephthys.

On the right well the emperor stands before the crowned tom'sheaded Khnum, before Osiris and Isis, before Horns and Rather,
and before Arbosnefer and Tefnut. A scene on the back wall of the
pronaos shows the king handing wine to the god Thoth, who holds

in his hand a Matt 1 beside which two serpents and a scorpion are

placed. Some figures of Christian saints have been depicted on
this wall.

The doorway to the next room (Pl. B), which dates from Ptom
lemy IV. Philopator, was erected as the door of a pylon, as is indicated on the Plan (11317 ]. There is an exit from the presses
through the right wing of this pylon, and another exit to the left
leads into the court outside the temple. The rear-walt of the, pro







