320 Route 31. DAKKEH. BARKER From Kareem

none, to. the from wall of the Salsas or Room B, exhibits Ptolemy

s new so ° Stilts"

the divine Eusrgetes, chosen by Pink, strong in the highness of Ra,
living image of Ammon. On the left he brings offerings to Ra, then
to Khnum and leis, on the right, to Ammon-Re and to Home,
avenger of his father, and presents the field to Isis. Within the
portal, Augustus offers the figure of M a to the god Thoth of Penubs
and to the lion-headed Tefnut. Above the doorway, on the inside,
is a double scene; both right and left Isis presents the symbols of
life to a crowned hawk, the symbol of the king. Behind the hawk
on the left are the oartouohes of King Philopator and his wife
Arsinod, and behind these, the oartouohes of King Philadelphus and
his wife who also was named Arsino'e. On the right side, behind
the oartouohes of Philopator and his wife, are those of the king's
father Energetes I. and his wife Berenice.

The baohuwall of this narrow chamber, whose side-walls fell
some years ago, is at the some time the entrance-wall of the most
ancient portion of the temple, viz. the Sanctuary (Pl. C), built by
the above-mentioned native king, Ergamenes. This king appears
with his full oartonohes on the right well

(q M. » Amen teta onkh dt so,

I W m I Qv' arra,

'Living hand of Ammon, Part of Ra',

(QTQi

;, _
'Ergamenes, ever living, beloved of Isis'. He make: offering: to
Osiris, Isis, and Home, than profiers wine to Amman-Ra, Math,

and Khnum, and finally appears with before Osiris, Thoth

Penubs, lord of Pselh, and Tefnut. At the foot are Nas-gods,
Similar representations occur on the left side, where the king makes
ofierings to Thoth, the lion of the south, to She. and Arhesnefer,
and than to Khnum, Hacker, and various other deities,

The door of the sanctuary appears to have been gilded. Above
it is a double dedicationninsoription of Ergamenes, arranged in
two parts, like the later inscription of Euergetes II. on the outer
portal. On one side the king calls himself the son of Osiris and
Isis, suckled by Nephthys, and son of Khnum end 8311, suekled
by Anuke; on the other side he styles himself son of Amman, beloved of Osiris and Isis, and again, beloved of Arhesnefer

o
q U E and of Tboth Penubs The inner walls of this chamber

were also adorned with the most varied sacrificial scenes arranged
in rows one above the other One of these, in the second row on








