to Dakkeh. 31. Route. 321

the wall to the right, shows the king (Ergamenss) pouring out wine
for a god described as.' of Senam. In another the king
m

appears before Imhotep, son of Ptah, kherheb and overseer of the
royal writings.

A small door in the E. (left) wall admits to a richly decorated
Cell (Pl. E). Two lions depicted on the back-wall recall the Gate
of the Lions at Mycenae. Above them is an allegorical composition:
Thoth in the figure of a baboon stands before a lion (Tefnut), above
which is the sun--disc and a vulture with a curved sword: this is
Tefnut, daughter of Be on the holy island (of Philae). Another
door on the right of the sanctuary leads to the staircase (PL F) ascending to the roof of the temple .---- The innermost room (Pl D),
named the'Roman sanctuary by Champollion, was entirely built

by the emperor designated (, and contains



scenes of worship to the same gods as appear in the preceding
chambers One of the scenes represents the emperor bestowing
upon the goddess Isis a headdress decorated with the Hathor-mask,

0f the Outside Walls only the W. wall is adorned. Above the
door to the outside was Placed a four-line hieroglyphic inscription,
with a demotic inscription below. The former is said to read: Way
his name remain before Theth of Penubs, the great god, the lord of
the town of scorpions (P-sea), before Tefnut, before the great gods
of the temple of the house of scar ions'. Prof. Eisenlohr was unable
to discover this inscription in'18 0.

0n the E. bank, nearly opposite Dakkeh, lies the village of
guhhen, on the site of Contra Psclchis, mentioned in the Itinerarium
Antonini as 24 Roman M. (22 Eng. M.) from Contra Talmis Ofaiabsheh), though in reality it is 32 Eng. M. The ruins here are those
of an ancient Egyptian fortress, defended by ditches and towers.
To the S. are blocks with the names of Tutmes UL, Horus, Ramses 11.,
and later Ramessides; and still farther to the s., a stale of Amenemha III. and the foundations of a small temple. Prisse d'Avennes
discovered here the well-known stele describing the route to the
gold-mines in the dei'0W.ci and the method of supplying these
with water. This stole, dating from the 3rd year of Ramses 11.,
which was taken by Count St. Ferric }. to his chateau at Uriage,
prompted Chabas to the composition of his interesting treatise on
'Lea Inscriptions dos Mines d'Or (Chalet), 1862). The numerous
gold--mines, worked until the Middle Ages were reached by a route
a little above Kubbin leading through the extensive Widi'Olilyi.
Granite mortars and mills and other articles used in the search for
gold are still to be seen, especially in tho Wadi Khumanib Dim
dams (In i'E-id) gives a detailed account of the working of the
metal by convicts il; ~~~~~ iC'ti,. M

BAEDEKER" B Upper Egypt.





