322
_ M, From Dakkeh to Ahn-Bimbel.

Comp. the Map. p. MU.
97 M, _ Above Dakkeh the Nile expands. At (3 M.) Kurt's,

< 22 >
in bierog. U a. on the W. bank, are the ruins of a small

temple of the Rieman period. dedicated to Isis and Home. The
name of Tamas 11L appem's here on some blocks built into the
walls. Straight in front of us rises an isolated mountain. The island of Dorrie (3 M. from Korti), which we pass on our right, is the

as
ancient Tahompso, hierog. (a) ti? Ta-kcm-so (600),

described by Herodotus (H. 29). Here ended the territory of 12
scholnoi above Elephantine belonging to isle of Philas, of which
mention is made on the stale of Philometor in tho temple-court of
Phila, (comp. p. 300).

On the W. bank, opposite a dark mountain-peak, lies the Temple
of Ofcdinah, also called Temple of Maliara? ah, after the village of
Maharahah, which lies a little higher up on the E. bank. Dating
from the Roman period. its Greek and demotic inscriptions show it
to have been dedicated to Sample and leis. It consisted of an en'trance-hall (new destroyed) approached by a bread flight of M. steps,
and of a main colonnaded building, 40 ft. long and 50 ft. broad.
Part of the walls has fallen; but 3 columns to the right and 2 to the
left of the entrance still stand, besides 8 columns in the interior.
In the innermost corner, to the right, are traces of a staircase
leading to the roof. A well connects this temple with a smaller
square structure to the K, on which is a curious representation:
beneath a fig-tree (Eapasuxdywog whence the Greek name of the
place, which was perhaps named Pcnubs in early Egyptian antiquity) sits a goddess with cow's horns (leis--Hathor), before whom is
a boy with a jug in his hands; above are three other gods. To the
left of this scene is Thoth with the ell; beneath is lsis.

The route now lies between monotonous hills. At Seydleh we
reach the boundary between Widi Kenna and the dei el-'Amb,
which extends to Ibrhn, At Mehendi. on the W. bank, are the ruins
of a Roman settlement. The mountains, especially on the K, become higher. At Martha is a picturesque group of hills with groves
of palms. The river makes a wide bend to the W., and we soon
come in sight of the temple of Siytstfah, 27 M. from Dakkeh.

The Temple of Sebu'ah. - Et-8ebigait Dr Sebmxh (the lions) or
dei Sehd'ah is the site of a temple dedicated to Amman and Ptah by
Ramses IL, and constructed like the temple at Geri Hustle, partly by
excavation in the rock, partly by building. The name is apparently
derived from the avenue of Lions or Sphincter in front of the temple.
Eight of these lions with human faces are supposed to have been ranged
on each side, though only the two first have retained? their heads. A



