TEMPLE "SEBU'AH. 32. Route. 323

few without heads lie behind. Beside the two first are two colossal
statues of Ramses IL, 101/2 ft. high, placed against pillars, hearing
the cartouches of the king,'beloved of Harmachis and Ptah' on the
right, and'beloved of Amman-Ba and Ptah', on the left. The king's
name appears on the girdles of both figures and on the chests
of the sphinxes. Statues of the king, probably four in number (new
destroyed), also stood in front of the pylon, which is 32 ft. high
and 42 ft. broad. On the back of one of these statues it is recorded
that the king erected this noble pillar in I'd-Amen (apparently the
holy name of the temple) in memory of his father Ammon-Re end
adorned it with costly gems. On the outside of the pylon, as in
various other Egyptian temples, are two colossal figures, which,
however, are difficult to identify owing to the weatherworn state
of the sandstone, of which the temple is built. On the right the
king holds eight fees by the hair, menacing them with his weapon
while they raise their hands in supplicetion:'he smites the great
ones of all lands'. The god Harmachis hands him the sword of
victory. To the left is a similar scene, in presence of Amman--Ra,
who promises to the king victory over all alien lands. The large
fore-court, which we now enter, is 65 ft. square. The interim is
very interesting. To the right and left are corridors, each with 5
Osiris-pillars supporting an architrave. On the left (S.) side the
roof of slabs is still extent, but on the N. side it is wanting, so that
the drift-sand has found entrance and now covers a considerable
portion of the court. At the top of the back of the pylon occur the
varying cartouches of Ramses 11., and beneath the cornice his name
occurs again, in anaglyphic characters. On the left (S) wing of the
pylon, the king presents a sphinx to Ammon-Ra and Math, to the
right he offers bread to Harmachis and Jesse. Round the court in
the row nearest the ground appears a procession of the children of

the king, each with the name appended, the sons bearing fans g,



the daughters hearing sistra There are two series, both beginning on the W. or back-wall of the court and running respectively
to the right and left from the W. entrance to the main temple. On
the W. wall, to the right of the temple-door, are 19 men (mostly
concealed by the sand), on the N. wall 40 men and 8 women, and
on the B. will, to the N. of the entrance to the court 27 women,
he. in this series 59 sons and 35 daughters. On the W. wall to the
left of the temple-door are 19 men and 20 women, on the S. wall
33 men and 12 women, he. 52 sons and 32 daughters. If the
names are not repeated, as at Medinet Helm, Ahydos, em, 111
sons and 67 daughters are thus attributed to Ramses the Great.
--The following room is the first in the rock--hows. portion of
the temple. The examination of this and the following rooms







