324 Route so. sustain. From Dashed

is rendered difficult by the accumulations of sand. The first room
contained six large and six small pillars, the former being meant
tosupport the central beams. The following narrow room is Lb.
joined by two eide-chambere and three other chambers in the
back-wall. In this room appears Ramses H. worshipping and pm
seating ofi'erings to various deities. Under a canopy are four gods
The foremost is Ptah, harem-headed and in his usual mummy-form,

with l? and He is named the Pick of King Ramses in Pa
amon. Then, as at Dakkeh, follows the seated figure of a second
Ptah, wearing as a headdress the bull's home with two feathers

.an.

between them, This Push is described as'lofty with the two

feathers and the home'. Next is a female figure with the moon-disc
(perhaps Rat-tail), and finally comes Rather, goddess of the southern
Nehet (sycamore tree), with home turned upwards enclosing two
feathers and the sun-disc. The colouring of the sacrificial scenes in
the side-chambers is well-preserved; and this is still more the case
in the adytum, the central of the three chambers at the back. Both
to the right and left in this room the king is represented sacrificing
before a richly adorned dhahabiyeh. The dhahabiyeh on the right has
thehawk's head ofHarmachis as its emblem, that on the left the ram's
head of Rheum-vita. Both. stand on ornamented tables. On the left
the king is offering incense above an altar, on the right he Is offer-,
ing flowers. A large fan is home beside him, and behind are standards with the heads of the two gods and of the king. The central picture exhibits Khnum-Rtr seated in a boat beneath a canopy,
with the kneeling king to the left and three cynocephali to the
right. Beneath is a recess, in which the outlines of three gods may
still he made out, although a figure of St. Peter, with & hula and a
large key, has been painted over them. The king, who appears on
the right and left, with flowers, has new the appearance of offering
them to the saint. Beneath is an inscription, running both to the
right and to the left and extending on to the side walls:'The living
Hora-Ra, the strong, the beloved of Ma, lord of the festivals, like his
father Ptah, king of both lands, Ramses the Great, he has made it
in memory of his father Amman-dis, king of the gods'.





Beyond Sabiitah the scenery assumes a regularly desert character,
which it retains until near Komako. Rocky isolated peaks rise on
the left. At Mallet the Nile makes a sudden bend, and beyond this
point the banks are once more cultivated, while dense paints-groves
appear on the left (FA, with scattered huts and many stttrshx

111/2 M. Xomko. The weekly meil-steemer spends the night
here, and Cook's touristwstearner touches here both on the way up
and the way down, if the passengers desire to visit the dress elm



