ttrAlitpuilimlug, 303113310: 32:120m. 325

Guarani. Until a few year's ago Kemeko was the chief emporium
and port of shipment for the caravans crossing the desert to or from
Aha flamed, which lies 8-40 long days" journey distant (see below).
This road avoided the three upper cataracts, which are not navigable
when the river is low, and it also shortened the journey considerably
by cutting on the windings of the Nile. Russegger, Lepsius, and
finally Gordon (1884) selected it on their way to Ehartihm A short
excursion along this desert-route, between the hills, black with
ironmscale, is not uninteresting; or the traveller may ascend (1/2 hr.;
steep and stony) the hill of Asset rig-Guarani, close to liornsko. On
the summit is the tomb of the saint to whom the hill owes its
name, a frequented pilgrim-resort. The view extends over the Nile
valley as Den: A fort has recently been erected by the Bri
tish at Korusho. On the bank of the river is a entice-house.

The desert.route from Xomeko w (227 hi.) Abu gamed and Barber is
described in Lepsius's Letters from Egypt and Ethiopia (see p. any). From
Abe. Horned to Berber the hire of camels was formerly 60 piasters each,
afterwards increased to 80 and 90 13. Among the stages on this route are
ei-BO, a range of sandstone hills extending for two days" journey; Bohr
belch mdh with its greenish flnirgraimsd reeks continuing the preceding;
Bohr { latch and dei Belch, where drier-palms are found. The route
intersects the Sahel Raft by means of the Wadi
norm. The last. the half-way point, contains some brackish water, the
only water met with on the entire route. and a few huts. Nest follows
the wide plain of cludl'rtnderak, bounded by the lofty hills of Abe ewe, then
the stony hills of Adar Auto, and the boundless plain of Adorned, which
extends to Abu Earned. with the low @ 8583 Ford: Farm on the left, and the
{ label Matron on the right. Mirages, called by the Arabs Bare h'an'tdrs or
'waters of Satan', are frequently seen on the way. Abu flamed on the Nile
is reached on the 8th, or at latest on the 10th day.

A little beyond Kerusho the Nile valley trends to the N.W., so that
the N. wind which prevails in winter frequently retards navigation. On
the left bank rises a picturesque chain of hills. In this reach travellers have a chance of seeing crocodiles, which frequent the sandbanks and lay their eggs in the clefts of the shore. Recently, however, they have become somewhat rare. On the W. bank the
inconspicuous Temple of'Amddah, 8 M. from Komako, comes in
sight. It lies deeply sunk in the desert-sand, while on the opposite
bank a cultivated strip with many trees stretches between the river
and the hills. Passengers by Cook's steamers have an opportunity of
visiting this temple.

The Temple of'Ava-h has a very unpretending exterior and
seems at first hardly worthy of a visit. Yet it is in reality of great
interest both for scientific and ordinary travellers as an excellent ex-n
ample of the graceful and elegant architecture of the 18th Dyn., under which it was built. Nothing is left of the front of the entrance"
hall except the doorway; and the structure of Nile bricks adjoining
the latter indicates that the temple has been used as a mosque or
as the tomb ofa saint. (A Mohammedan cupola, removed only a few
years ago. was an additional proof.) On the right Sid of








