326 Route 32." unions. » nan new

way appears Tutmes TIL, to the lam his son and successor Amen
hotep 11.0w 3
0n the inside of the doorway is the name of Sad L (19th Dyn.).
Also in the doorway appears the praying figure of Satan, royal prince
of Kush, who according to the royal cartouche above, served under
Ramses IL The Antechamber itself consists of three rows of pillars,
arranged in three couples on each side, and behind is a row of
proto-Doris (p. 12) columns. The side-pillars on the right and left
are connected with the sidewalls. Most of the pillars exhibit the
earttn1eheg of Tutmes IV., distinguished from that of Tutmes III.
by the three strokes signifying the plural. On the first engaged
pillar to the left Tutmee IV. is mentioned as'beloved by Re bite
hoe (. Q UgU L0, Usertesen 111., lord of Sekhem', a king of
the 12th Dynasty, On the outer and inner sides of the two architrayes over the central pillars are dedicationminscriptions by Tut-v
mes IV. On the N. side of the ambit-rave on the right, we read:
'The living good god of the Home (genuine), who defeated Ethiopia,
brought the boundaries like him who was not created (Ptah), a
brave king with his sword, like Menu ], of a steady heart above many,
he makes the mountains quake'. On the S. side of the left architrave
are the words:'Thoth, lord of divine words, speaks to the great
cycle of gods in Pa Ra (probably the home of the gods): Come,
behold the great and holy monument, carefully hewn, the divine
temple of millions of years, made by King Raomenmhhepern (Tut-w
mes IV.) for his father Reutum, the great god, who made him'. The
inscriptions on the other architraves are similar, On the two columns to the left are the names of Tutmes m, and Amenhotep 11., so
that the columns seem to be older than the pillars and architrave.

. The Sekos, beyond the antechamber, is broad but shallow
(241/2 ft, by 61/2). On the outside of the doorway here also
Amenhotep o. is commemorated; on the inside Seti L is named as

the mature: arms of this monument meant for Amman
Ba and Harmachis; and over the door on the inside, Tntmes HI.
To the right on the inside of the entranceuwall is Tntmes HI. emu
braced by Isis, and then Amenhotep II. offering drink-offerings to
Amman-" Ra. On the left Thoth and Hor-Hut strew the symbols of
life over Amenhotep H. Three (100133 in the backmwall of this Sekos
lead into other apartments. The central one enter »; the Smotsmry,
which occupies the whole of the remaining length of the temple
(about :16 it). The doors to the right and left each admit into two
chambers, one behind the other, the front chamber in each case
being the larger. Tutmes 1H. styles himself'beloved by Earmachis
and Ammon-Ra' in a three-line inscription over the door of the
sanctuary }; It is therefore evident that the temple'Amadah wu








