to AbnmSimbel. *AMKDAH. 32. Route. 327

dedicated to these two deities, as is also indicated by the reproachtations to the right and left of the entrance-door. Above the small
door on the right are the dedications of Tntmes III. and Amenhotop H. The three apartments contained scenes of worship, scenes
from the founding of the templ e, and sacrificial scenes. The traveller
should notice the carefully executed portraits of the three kings who
took part in the erection of the temple, Tntmes 11L, Amenhotep 11.,
and Tntmes IV.

On the back-wall of the sanctuary is a stale of great historical
importance. At the top is a relief of Amenhotep H. presenting two
vessels of wine to Harmaohis and Ammon-Ra; beneath is an inn
scription of 20 lines, from the 3rd year of the reign of Amenhotep Ir, After a flattering account of the king and his achievements
(repeated on a stale found at Erment and now in Wan na), the
completion of the temple begun by Tutmes m. ie mentioned.

Line 12.'Behold, the king adorned the house of the god (which had
been erected by) his father, King Tntmes 1H,, for all the divine mum,
built of stoneas an enduring work, with a protecting wall of bricks
around it. The doors were of the finest acacia-wood, the gateways of
enduring stone, with the object of commemorating for ever the great name of
his father Tntmes III. in this temple. King Amenhotep II. celebrated the
festival of the laying of the foundation-stone in honour of all his ancestors, while he dedicated to him a massive gate-tower of hard stone in
front of the protecting-wall of this splendid dwelling of the gods, a colonnade round it of hard stone as a lasting work, many sacrificial vessels
and utensils of silver and brass, stands altars, a bronze caldron, bra-u
tiers, dishes, and census. Thereupon the king caused this stale to be
prepared and placed in this temple in the place where mums) the statue
of the great Home, the king, and be caused to be graven on it the
mighty name of Amcnhotep II. in the house of this divine fathers, after
he returned from the land of Upper Syria, where he overthrew all his
adversaries, in order to widen the boundaries of Egypt on his first
campaign.

Still more remarkable is the narrative at the end of this in~
scription:

'The king had returned home, with his heart fall of gratitude to his
father Amman. With his own hand he had struck down with his club
seven kings, who were in the region of the land of Takhis. They lay
pinioned on the fore-dark of the royal ship, the name of which was'Ship
of Amenhotep IL, maintainer of the land'. Six of these enemies were
hanged on the walls of Thebes, and their hands the sum The remaining
enemy was carried up the stream to Nubia, and hanged on the walls of
the town of Napata, an order to make the victory of the king manifest
for ever among all the tribes of the land of the negroes, since he has
taken possession of the tribes of the 8., and tamed the tribes of the lit,
even to the ends of the whole earth, upon which the sun shines, without
finding any opposition, according to the command of his father AmmonRa, lord of the throne of both lands. Such things has King Amenhotep II. done". From Brugsch, History of Egypt, pp. 390, 391.

Those who ascend to the roof of the temple will find a memorial
of Herodotus, the'father of history', not, however, inscribed by
himself, for he himself informs as (11.29) that he came no farther
than Elephantine. The were aspect of the Imam indicates that the
inscription (as follows) is of considerable antiquity.





