328 Route 32. DEER. From Dakkch

HPOAOTOi MIKAPNAZZOY
EIAEN KAI EeAYMA

'Herodotue of Helicarnassus beheld and admired'. Beneath, in a
later style of writing, is the word OYdAMQE'not at all', indicating
the unauthentic character of the inscription above.

31/2 M. Dan, on the E. bank, prettily situated beneath sycamoree and date-palms, contains inertia-houses. The one brick-build"
ing is the residence of the Rasher, who was formerly independent
ruler of Lower Nubia and owned a large harem. Outside the town,
about half-way to the hill, lies the mosque of a saint. The top of
the hill command » an attractive view of the town and the Nile. Near
its foot lies the small and unfortunately much injured Rock Temple
of Deer. The vestibule, the sides of which were formed by the
smoothed rocks of the hill, and which was 421/2 ft. deep by 46 ft.
broad in the open air, contained a triple row of pillars, of which the
hindmost alone is standing. This row has Osiris-figures against the
pillars (as at Medinet-Habu, p. 175, em). The two front rows and
the gateway are now represented only by fragments a few feet in
height. On the back of the left side of the gateway are some traces
of a warlike scene, with chariots and warriors. The right side-wall
of the vestibule was covered with warlike representations, now much
damaged, in three rows. In the topmost row only the legs of the
figures are now left. In the second row Ramses IL, founder of this
temple, can be distinguished in his chariot accompanied by a lion,
before a group of prisoners. The lowest row showed the king
launching arrows against his fleeing fees. We see the fugitives conveying their wounded to the mountains, where a herdsman's family,
surrounded by their domestic animals, wait in grief and anxiety for
their son. On the left wall also are remains of three scenes, include
ing one in which the king leads two rows of captives to Harmachis.
The third row of pillars, hewn out of the rock and still standing,
here dedications from the king to various gods. The "presentation:
an the back wall of this hall, to the right and left of the entrance
into the dark excavated part of the temple (lights necessary), are
specially effective..,

On the right side the king holds by the hair some foes, bending
in presence of Ammon-Ra, while between the king's legs is his
lion, here said to follow the king and to slay his enemies. The
heads of the king and the god are unfortunately destroyed. To the
left of this scene are two smaller ones showing the king before Fish
and (Sekhet) before Thoth. Beneath is a row of the king's daughters
with slum, corresponding to a row of his sons, with fans, headed
by Amsnhithopcskf, on the left wall. The chief scene on the left
wall, above the king's sons, shows the king fighting against his fees
in presence of the hawk-headed Harmachis, with the lion biting the
leg of one of the fees. In the small adjoining scene, Ramses presents
WK the ram's-headed Khnum with a figure of Ma, goddess of truth.





