to Abu-Simbd. ELLESIYEE 32. Home. 329

The next room, almost square, is entirely hewn out of the rock,
six square pillars being left in two rows in the centre. The urchin
trove above the pillars contains the customary dedicationwinscription. 0n the right we read: "The living Hor-Ra, the strong lord of
both lands beloved by Ma, who rules Egypt and has conquered the
nations, the gold-hawk, rich in years, great in victories, the king
of Upper and Lower Egypt, Ramses u., has reared in memory of
his father Harmachis the Hot Ramessu meramon in Pa Ra.'Pa
Ra' is thus the holy name of the spot and'temple of Ramses Mora--mon" the name of the sanctuary. On the left architrave Amazon--Ra
is mentioned instead of Harmachis, as lord of the throne of both
lands, so that the temple must be regarded as dedicated to both
deities. On the six pillars are figures of the king before Tum, Ptah,
Khnum, and other gods. On the right side-wall is the boat of Harmachis borne by 12 priests and conducted by the king, on the left
side-welt the king, in a boat, offering incense. From this chamber
a large door, surmounted by the winged sun-disc, leads into the
sanctuary, and doors to the right and left admit to smaller apartments. Four seated figures occupy the rear-wall of the sanctuary,
viz, (beginning to the left) Ptah, Amman-" Ra, the king, and Ila: mm: "with the bank's head. They are all represented full face,
and would be difficult to identify were it not for the inscriptions
adjoining .--Not far from the temple is a small rock-stale, dedicated to the king's son Amcncmhcb, with the figure of a temple.

Beyond Dar: the Nile valley again turns to tha SAW. To the
right is the island of Tennis. Crocodiles now become more numerous, looking from a distance like trte-trunks or like huge frogs. A
nearer view is only to be obtained by rowing on ahead of the dhahabiyeh in the felulreh or small boat. At Ellcsiyeh (E. bank), also
called cd-Dukncsroh, is a rock--tomb of the 18th Dynasty. On a stale
here, dating from the 43rd year of Tutmes Hi, the king presents



offerings to Home, lord of Mom 2 5%, and to San, mistress of

Abu. The walI-paintings represent the king seated between Math
and Una; then offering to Horus, lord of the land of Khent, to Hams
of Mam, and to Thoth and llathor.

On the W. bank, opposite Keitch, we next see an ancient ruined
fort. Then to the right is the verdant island of Abra Eds, and to
the left the village or
13 M. Ibrim. To the E. rises a considerable chain of hills, and to
the W. (left) is a narrow strip of palms and .castorwoil plants, beyond
which is the desert. On the W. bank, a little inland from the village
of Anibeh, and hidden behind a palm-grove, lies an interesting

rock-tomb of the reign of Ramses VI.'=,'




hiwbhopcsh comers mterhiir on. It belonged te Permut, sun of H:





