330 Route" 32. main.

m M
E. part of the S. wall is inscribed a record of the presentation of
lands for the maintenance of the statues of the king in the town of

mm, which was apparentlythe name of this place

O
or of'Amddah.

On the E. wall is a royal prince of Rush, standing, fan in hand, before
Ramses VI., and announcing to him the gift of Peanut, who presented
the adjacent statues of the king and two silver anointing-vessels In the
lower row, Peanut and To Kilo, his wife, the singer of Ammon, present
an offering before their deceased relations, the men being represented
above, the women below. These family scenes are continued on the E.
part of the N. Wall; above is the worship of Harmachis, below that of
Osiris. On the W. part of the N. wall and continued on the W. wall
and half of the S wall are scenes relating to the worship of the dead.
Peanut appears on his knees before a mountain, from which the had of
Rather, a goddess of the under-world, projects among lotus-flowers.
Within the mountain is a chapel with a tapering roof, and in front of
the mountain is the goddess Ape, holding a frog in her hand. On the
W. wall is the preparation of the mummy of the deceased, and the presentation of the deceased and his wife to Osiris, by Horns, son of Isis.
Beneath, the fields of Ant-arc are being tilled; and Harmachis, Tum, and
Khepera, seated upon a pedestal, are receiving homage. On the W. half
of the S. wall are the balances of the dead, the entrance to the grave,
and the laying of the deceased in the vault by a long train of mourning
relations.

A little above Anibeh (p. 329) a flat--topped hill of some size
rises steeply from the Nile on the E. Upon this stands the partly
ruined fort of Kagr Ibrim. dating from Roman times. A visit to it
is interesting. The ascent is made on the N. At the top are some
block, with the name of Taharka of the 25th Dym, and a basilica
with Byzantine capitals of granite. Keel: Ibrim is identified with
the Roman Priests Porno or Presets, a fortress stormed by Petronius
o, 302), who afterwards restored it and garrisoned it with 400 men,
with provisions for two years. At the beginning of the 16th cent.
the sultan Selim placed a garrison of Bosnians here, whose descendants were defeated in 1811 by the fleeing Mamelulres. Finally
Ibrahim Pasha captured the fortress.

In the S. slope of the mountain, not far above the river-bank,
are five grottoes harm in the rock, all of which except the most
northerly, bear inscriptions. The first (on the S.) shows ever the
entrance the cartouches of Tutmes 111.,'beloved by Home, lord of

_ "J..
Mum l he, and by Sati, mistress'of the land of Khsnt'. This



grotto belonged to Nchi, overseer of the palace and royal son
(probably only a title), and overseer of the S. land. Beside a much
damaged relief of Nehi presenting booty or tribute from the S. land
to the king, is the inscription:'Bringing of the tribute of the S.
lands in gold, ivory, and ebony, by the gracious overseer, the privy
councillor'..' "the royal son, and president of the S. land



