ABUuSIMBEL. 33. Route. MI

Nehi". In the recess at the end of the cave Tntmes HI. sits between
Home and Sari. Immediately to the left is the second cave (about
10 fa deep), much less skilfully executed, in which appear ten
persons before Banned. Among these are Seton, prince of Kush
(whose name is found elsewhere in Nubia), and a number of scribes
and officials.

The third cave, which lies a little higher up, also shows the
cartouohe of Tutmes Hi. The recess contains the somewhat roughly
executed figures of four seated personages; to the right the king
and Sari, to the left the king and Home, lord of Mai-The fourth
cave (from the S.) is the most important. It belongs to Amenhotep w, who appears conducted by Home: lord of Beheni, to a
row of gods including Khnum, Sati, and Amaa, the gods of the
cataracts, and Horns, Harbor, and Heben .--- To the S. of Key
Ibrhn a few steles are found, one showing a victorious king in his
wax-chariot.

The mountains presently retire, leaving room for a strip of cultiVated land. Numerous semen or water-wheels are seen. To the
left (E) appears the village of Djimench, beside a pretty wood.
Farther on, on the some bank, lies Toshltch (Nubian'Threo Mountains'), a small place among palms, with a somewhat uncivilized
population. At Toshbch el-Ghurb, on the W. bank, 7 M. from the
river, a large force of dervishes was defeated with the loss of their
cannon by the British on Aug. 3rd 1889; several thousand slain
were left on the battle-field, and their weapons and clothing were
sold by the neighbouring natives. Cook's tourists may visit the
battleofield if they desire it.

The district we next enter upon is very monotonous and almost
uninhabited, and navigation is rendered difficult by rocks. To the
left lie Gurgundi and three shéhhs' tombs; then the villages of Debitt
and Frosty. The river-bed becomes very wide at places. On the
right we catch sight of the colossi that guard the temple of AbuSimbel.

331/2 M. Alas-Simbel, on the W. bank,

M, The Rock--Temples of Abu-Simbel.

Cook's tourist steamers usually reach AM Simbel in the evening of
the third day, in time to permit of a visit to the temples before night
Next morning they proceed to Widi 1mm: On me mum voyigo they
again spend the night at Abu Simbel, starting next morning at 9 or
m o clock

The two temples of Abu-Simbel ('Father of the Ear of Corn')
he a short distance apart at the foot of a precipitous Jifi close to the
W. bank of the Nile. No other temple in Egypt produces so unexeu
pectedly grand an effect as the great rock temple of Ramses IL,
especially by moonlight. By itself it would repay the trouble of
the ascent from Phile. both by the dignity of its sculptures and by








