Temple. ABILSIMBEL 33. Route. 333

105 ft, in order to form the imposing rock-facade of this temple.
At the top we see a row of'22 cynocephali (some destroyed),
which we learn from other Egyptian temples to recognize as worshippers of the sum-god. Below these are the oartouohes of the
king, surrounded with litmus--serpents. Then follows the short dedication inscription of Ramses the Great, which begins in the
middle and runs in both directions; on the right it styles the king
'beloved by Harmachis', on the left'beloved by Amman, king of
the gods'. Still lower, in a recess in the centre of the temple-wall, is
e full-relief statue of Horus (Harmachis), with the sun on his head
and the symbols of life in his hands, while below, to the right, is

the goddess Me, to the left the symbol 1 user, thus expressing the

king's name in picture-writing. To the right and left is the king
again, presenting figures which also express his name, and worshipping the god. Below, and somewhat indistinct, are the double
cartouches of the king.

Our attention is most forcibly attracted to the four seated Colossi
(Pl. a, b, o, d), been out of the rock, with their backs against the
cliff. That to the left of the entrance Wi. b) has unfortunately been
violently deprived of its head and arms', which new lie on the
ground in front. The colossus on the other side of the door (Pl. c)
was restored by Seti ll. Each of those figures is not less than 66 ft.
high, their various limbs being in proportion. In spite of the enor
mous scale the general effect is successful, and the countenances
7 have a pleasant and intelligent expression. All four represent
Ramses the Great, as is testified by the cartonches on the breast
and arms and between the legs. To the right and left of each are
standing figures, mostly of woman; to the right and left of the entrance, Nofsrtcri Merl-cn-mut, consort of Ramses; between the legs
of the injured colossus, prince Amhihhopcshf ('Ammon in his
sword'), who is introduced in the temple of Dan as the oldest son
(semen) of Ramses 11.; to the left of this colossus Toe, the king's
mother. Beside the colossus farthest to the left are two daughters
of the king, viz. Ncbtwtatl, on the left, and Bant-an.ta on the right;
between the legs is an unnamed female figure. The figures at the
sides of the colossus to the extreme right, the names of which are
concealed by the sand, probably correspond to these. In 1817 Balm
zoni spent 14 days in freeing the temple from the sand that had
drifted into it from the desert behind. Burokhardt, however, had
mentioned it previously. It was again laid here by Lepsius in 1844
and by Mariette in 1869, but the sand has already covered great
part of it to a considerable depth.

Before we enter the temple our attention is claimed by a Greek irrscription which is found on the left is of the injured colossus, along wrth
various other Greek, Caries }, and hmnioian insoriptionsw It rups as





