334 Route 33. ABU-SIMBEL. Great

Burritos thhdsroc is'Elapasrlvus Wanner! o

rod-re tppmhevr oi 66v Wepnariyot rel 8éo or
Either I has he Képrtoc suture Bistros screed;
chain aim- [ loose Anysnordoturo { yd-arms ht "disease
é pm a Annapop or liposfilyoo sol Ethanol: Men King sammelic 115 came to Elephantine, the companions of Psammetichus, son of Theokles, wrote this. They came by
ship via Kerkis (. 316) to where the river rises, the differently apeaking
Deehepotaaimto Le. A foreigner, perhaps a Carina) and diesels speaking
Egyptian, Demerarchon, son of Amoibichos, wmm,

The leader of this company is here named Psemmetikh; in a Phoenician inscription on the same spot one of the mercenaries is spoken of
as a servant of Her, the general. The writers of the other Greek inscriptions were partly Ionians from Teas and Kolophon, partly Dorians from
Rhodes, a Sidonian, and a Carlee.

Providing ourselves with candles, or still better with a magnesium lamp, we now enter the rock-temple, the interior of which,
with its still vividly coloured pictorial decorations, is no less remarkable than the exterior. The walk; of the first hall (Pl. m,
which is 58 ft. long by 54 ft. broad, are covered all round with raw
presentations, which were first chiselled in the stone, then covered
with a' thin coating of stucco and painted. The ceiling is supported
by eight square pillars, against which stand Osiris-figures 9f the
king, with the scourge and the creek in his crossed hands. The
ceiling itself is adorned with vultures and the names of the king.
Above the entrance is the remarkably simple dedication-inscription,
on the right to Harmachis, lord of the land of Khent, on the left to
Ammon-Ra, king of the gods. The pictorial scenes in this hall are
symmetrically arranged, so that those referring to events in the N.
of Egypt are placed on the N. (right) side, those to events in the
s., on the S. (left) side. A similar arrangement was adopted in the
exterior hall of the temple of hit el-Walli (p. 310).

On each side of the entrance-wall within are representations,
such as are commonly found on the pylons of more recent temples;
as rag. at Edfu and Philse. The king aims a blow with his club at
a number of fees, whom he holds by the hair, while they raise their
hands in supplication. On the left are represented N. tribal, on
the right S. tribes, easily distinguished by their facial characteristics. Harmachis stands before the king on the left, and Ammon,
handing him the sword of victory, on the right. Hovering above
the king is a protecting vulture. On a smud'ard behind him is the
name Ka nekht meet me,'the strong bull, beloved of the goddess
Mal. In his right hand is an ostrich feather, in his left a head with
the Satan Ka, the person of the king, with the legend'the living
royal Ka, lord of both lands in the grave, in the house of the deep".
Beneath are the children of the king; to the right his sons, to the
left his daughters, with sistra.

We now turn to the S. wall, on the left. At the top are fire reuligious pictures: sacrificial scenes before Amman, Harmachis, the
king in the tree of life kneeling upon the symbol of the festival,





