Temple. newsman. 33. Route. 335

sap heb, before Ptah, before a ram'Swheaded deity (Mar nut-f,
loving his mother), lord of Khan, and before Apt. Beneath are
three large warlike scenes. The first represents the king in his
chariot at the storm of a fortress. The horses with handsome harness
are gaIIOping, while the king launches an arrow against the fortress.
Above him is the guardian vulture, and behind him are his three
sons Amhikhopcshf, Ramses, and Rehiuansmif, with their shieldbearers in chariots. The defenders of the Weil-drawn fortress are
pierced by arrows; one is falling from the walls. A herdsman takes
to flight with his haul

Beside the king's horses are the words, referring to the king:'The
good god, son of Ammon, the advancing lord of the sword, protector of
his soldiers, shield of the fighters, bravely knowing the place of his hand,
firm in his war-chariot like the lord of Thebes, a lord of victory he clays
hundreds of thousands, one bull against number-less (foes), he sweeps
away the confederates, he defeats the rebels on the summit of their
mountains, he penetrates into their valleys like the grasshopper; Thou
causest them to be out od' in their dwellings. Thou destroyest their seed
with the royal sickle'.

A second picture exhibits the king on foot, treading upon a
prostrate enemy, and piercing a Syrian with a lance so that his
blood gushes forth. The king is represented as a young man of
vigorous frame, probably as at the beginning of his warlike career.

The inscription runs:'The good god who breaks in pieces the nine
tribes of the bow, who exterminate, the lands of the N., a strong hero
against the nations, with a brave sword like Menu Ho leads the land
of the negroes to the N. land, the Ama to the land of Khent (Nubia). He
transplants, the people of the Sheen to the land of.. "he places the land
of Tahoe at the mountain-ridge. lie fills with his victories the temples
that he has built with the booty which he won when he overthrew the
lpnd oi'Syria, and annihilated the land of Retennu, thrown down upon
T 5) ac.

The third picture exhibits the triumphal return of the king
from battle. His chariot is preceded by two rows of fettered captives....... black and brown people from the 8. (he. Nubians and Sibdtmuss )--clad in skins and wearing tapa of straw or reads. The
king follows calmly in his chariot, his horse, named chhtu cm was
(Victorious in Thebes), paces proudly along; and beneath the horse
is the king's lion, which accompanied him in battle.

The inscription is as follows: "The living and good god, who tamer
the rebellious, smites the land of the 8., and annihilates the land of the
N. A brave king with his sword he drives far back those who have
crossed his borders. His majesty comes to (Mammy lands, he places many
in terror'. Farther on we read'He slays their chiefs, he causes the negroes of Wawa to say'he is like a flame in its uprising, he (spares) not
the Retennu'.

A large picture on the opposite (N, wall) deals with the warlike
events connected with the storming of the fortress of Katerh, on the
Grantee (Aranuta), with which we have already become acquainted
in the Remesseum (p. 161), and at Luxor, Karnak, and Abydos.

In the upper half of the picture the besieged fortress is depicted, with
the king, bending his bow, attacking it on the left. The E yptian chariots
surround that of the king. Beneath the fortress are the ivisions of the
army of the Kheta (Hitches) and their allies, of which 0








