336 Route 33. ABU-SIMBEL. Great

8000, the other at 9000 men. The Egyptian chariots meet those of the
Khan. and their allies, who ride three in a chariot. Many of the enemy,
both Kheta and Libyans, have fallen into the water. To the extreme
right, above the blue-painted river, is the king in his chariot, addressing
gracious words to his officers, who count the covered hands and limbs of
the Kheta and Naharina before him and bring tattered prisoners. A narrow
strip below represents the chariot-fight. Beneath, to the left, is the
stockaded camp, into whim morning nu ma adjoining inscription, the
enemy forced their way but were repulsed by the single legion of Ammon,
commanded by the king, who had been lulled into security by the false
reports of two spies, and had dcspatched several of his regiments in
another direction. In the picture to the right the king site upon his
throne, among his courtiers. To the right and left of the royal person is
the account of an - in the 5th year of his reign, already known to
us from the Ramesseum (p. 161). It relates that two Arabs (Shun) one
tered the Egyptian may, pretending to be refugees from the mum, and
seeking service under the Pharaoh. They stated that the Khota lay at
Khirabu (Hclbon he. Aleppo) to the N. of Thnncp, and were in terror of
the Egyptians. This information was false, and the two spies were flogged
(in the lowest scene to the right), in order, as the inscription says, that
they might say where the miserable Kheta lurked. The spice were next
brought before the king on his golden throne, and crossucxamined, and
finally confessed that the Khan, with numerous allies, lay behind Katesh.
The king assembles his generals, relates what the spies have told, chides
his oft'icrs for being so imperfectly informed, and orders the recall of the
troops that had been sent elsewhere. He himself puts on his armour,
attacks the enemy" slap them, and throws them into the river.

Two pictures on the hawk (W.) wall of this main hall show the king
presenting the enemies in fetters to the gods On the left are two rows
of negrocs and Nubians before Ammomita, the deified image of the king,
and Math; on the right the Asiatics (Hittites) before Harmachis, the
figure of the kin and a lion-headed goddess (Sekhet). The adjoining inscription runs:'Bringing of the tribute by the good god (is. the king)
for his father Ra, when he came out of the land Rheta, annihilating the
rebellious lands and smiting the enemies in their dwellings, with silver,
gold, khesbet (lapiswlaculi), mafelt (malachite), and precious stones, as
the conquest of every land had been commended him'. Between the two
last villus in this hall is a stain of the 35th year of Ramses W, on which,
beneath a relief, is a long decree in favour of King Bananas issued by
the god Ptah Totunon. This decree was repeated almost word for word
by Ramses m, on the pylon of the temple of Medinet Babe.

The other chambers of this temple are less interesting, and
their examination is rendered troublesome by the swarms of bats
that "against the lights. They contain only the usual scenes of
shortage, most of them unfinished. As the accompanying plan
o. 332) shows, two parallel chambers (PI. o, N) run oN from the
N. side of the main hall, while from the ends of the back wall lead
two oblique passages (PI. K, G), from each of which run two parallel
chambers (Pl. L, M, and PL H, 1). Round the walls of these latter
chambers run stone benches, less than 3 ft. high. In the S.W.
chamber (PL 1) is the picture of an altar with a hieratic inscription. Directly behind the main mu on, F) is a smaller hall (Pi. E;
36 ft. broad,'25 it. deep), with four pillars. On the N. and B. wall:
are depicted the boats with the shrines of Harmaehis and Ammon,
borne in each case by 20 priests. Three doors lead hence to along
narrow chamber (Pl. B), at the back of which are three recesses
Jn, A, C, D). In the central recess, the sanctuary st d n altar,



