Temple. ABU-SIMBEL. 33. Route. 337

behind which are painted four figures, viz. Ptah (to the left), Ammon in blue, King Ramses, and Harmachis. No one should omit
to enjoy the mysterious effect of the interior view of this temple,
with its eight Osiris-statues, as seen by the light of torches or a
magnesium-lamp,

We now climb over fallen stones and heaps of sand to the smaller
temple, which lies a little to the N.

The asSmaller Bock Temple of Aha-Simbel lies close to the river.
The Cliff has here been smoothed for a breadth of 90 ft. to make
room for the facade of this attractive temple of Rather, which in
modest contrast to Ramses'e huge monument, will not fail to produce a satisfactory impression. The six statues on the facade do
not project boldly like the colonel of the great temple, but stand in
niches supported on projecting pillars. Moreover it is not only the
king that is here represented; to the right and left of him stand
female figures equally large in which we recognize his consort Nofertari Meriemnut. The latter holds a sistrum in her hand and wants
a double headdress with home twisted round a disc, such as is worn
by Hathor, goddess of love, whose representative the queen is. The
figures at the corners represent Ramses again; on the left in his
usual form with a dagger in his girdle, and on the right as a doinfied king, with a crown consisting of the double feather springing

from the sun, and the twisted heme. Besides the six co
lossi there are a number of much smaller statues of the children of
the king and queen. Beside the colossi on the right and left of the
door are the two eldest sons of the king, viz. (on the right) Amcnhim
lthopcshf (Amman. in his sword) and (on the left) Rohieoncmif (its at
his left hand); beside the "outer colossi are the princes Meritum
(right) and Marisa (left), and beside each of the colossi of the queen
are statues of the princesses Meritamon (right) and Honttani (left),
with sistra in their hands. The first and third pillars on the right
hear interesting inscriptions:'He (the king) has made the temple

in an excavation J that in the mountain, in everlasting
Q LA

a
work, in the land of thni','Frontierwland' or'Bewmland',

and Wig Majesty has commanded to make a temple in the land of
thnt, in an excavation in the mountain; never was such a thing
done before'. A narrow portal admits to the temple, which, to judge
from a relief and inscription beside the door, was dedicated also to
Amman and a Hows (em boy,

The Main Hall is practically the only one in this temple, as the
rooms behind are merely its dependencies. It is 34 it. deep and
27 R. broad, and has six pillars in two rows, each decorated with
the head of Kathe: with the cow's ears Q, andpvbearjfngjlle mgr
Busesasu's Upper Edith. 22



