338 Rom M. ABU-SIMBEL. Smaller

touches of Ramses H. and his queen Refereed. On the architreve

above is the inscription (to the left):'The living and good god
punishes the Hanna (Nose), conquers the land of N cheer, smite:
the S lands, ploughs the N. lands. King Ramses and. his

consort Nofertari Mer--en-mut they have made the temple on the

holy mountain M Tu oh" (the name of the menu
tain of o, aimu, 0n the right,'the living and good god, great
in terror, the brave lion, lord of the sword, has overcome the rebellious landsfietc.

The pictures on the E. wall (entrance-wall) of this hall resemble
those in the great temple; to the left, the king, before Horus who
hands him the sword of victory, seizes an overthrown Tehennu (N
tribesman) { by the hair to slay him; to the right standing before
Amman, be 513575 a. negro. The legends are almost word for word the
same as those on the architrave. But in both the pictures in this
temple, there appears behind the king the form of his consort Nofertari, who is named the Expat war }, the great princess, of every
grace in her heart, the beloved palm, mistress of both lands, beloved. of the king, and united with the ruler. Several portraits on
the pillars (to the right) show her to have been of great beauty.
She is represented wearing the fan-crown, the disc and horn crown,
and the serpentwdiedem, holding in her right hand a sistrum with
the head of Hathor, and a flower-stem in her left.

On the S wall the king appears between the deities Home, lord
of Maha "w, and Seth, who bear long toothed

stems, with the notches for the years, and the symbols of eternity
Here also appears Bathe: with a harp, generally called mistress of



\ em, and. Seth, who hear long toothed



(:3
Ataturk ma, which perhaps was a name for Abu-Sima
he }. Three doors lead hence into a narrow apartment, which cone
tains a picture of the queen between Isis and Esther. On each side
of this room is a recess, and another at the back. In the last is a
remarkable figure of Hacker standing in a temple, with a human
head and above it a cow's head with home surmounted by the disc
and two fans. The king stands outside the temple, adoring flowers.

To the N. of the small temple and still on the smoothed part of
the clifi', we observe a tablet on which a prince of Ruth, Ani by
name, a man of Khinensu, appears with the fan and princely staff
before Harness the Great; beside it is a finely executed Me, containing the homage of a grandee to the king. To the S. of the great
temple is a passage with a somewhat weather-worn stole facing the
N, dating from the 34th year of the king This is more especially
interesting from the fact that above, to the right of the king who
am beneath a canopy between two gods, appears the b -:





