Temple. Ase-smear... 33. Route. 339

daughter of the Khan prince, followed by her father. Since her
name (Ra-ma~uornefcm) is enclosed in a royal cartouche, it is
probable that she became the legal wife of Ramses. Friendly relations with the Kheta prince Khetosor were established in the 2131';
year of the king's reign by the peace mentioned at p. 142. Beside
it is a small tablet of the general Amenhi, with the prince Seti, the
king's mother Tree, and the princess Bent-onto. Farther back (towards the E) is another large stole, with the winged snow-disc beneath which Ramses the Great is shown before Amman with the
double crown, before Harmaehis (Her akhutt, Home of the two



abroad fear and terror, annihilated the land of Kush, and subdued
the land of Kheta, is compared to the gods Horns, Mentu, and Seth

Immediately to the left of this passage a rock-chamber was discovered in 1874 by a party of travellers including Miss Amelia
B. Edwards, the well-known writer, who has described it in her
interesting Thousand Miles up the Nile. The first chamber, 25 it.
deep, is adjoined by another rook-cave, 15 it. deep and 21 ft,
broad. This little Temple was dedicated by Ramses to Thoth and
Harmachis, the former of whom is here called lord of Khmunu
(Hermopolis Magna) in Amonhari (perhaps a name for Abra-Simbel). Both gods are represented in golden coloured dhahabiyehs,
before which the king stands worshipping (to the left the boat of
Thoth, to the right that of Ammon-Ra). The name of Usertesen U.

Q. Romkhculcheper (12th Dyn.), a king celebrated in Nubia,

is also found here. The theory that this was the library of the king,
of which Thoth was president, is unfounded. Still farther to the left
are a number of steles incised in the rock, some of which are dim-n
cult to reach. One of them dates from Seti H. The farthest to the
left is a double stale of the 38th year of Ramses 11., inscribed by a
prince of Kush named Satan.



34. From Abu-Simbel to the Second Cataract.

Comp. the Map, 32. 3:94

381/2 M. About 3 M. above Abu~Simbel, near Feraig on the E.
bank, is a small rockmtemple, dating from the reign of King Heme
(Her em hob), the last king of the 18th Dynasty. This temple, which
faces thew, was once used as a Christian church; a figure of Christ
may be seen on the ceiling and one of St. George on the wall of the
main chamber. The structure is also sometimes called the Temple
Of Gabel Addeh (Champollicn), and sometimes the Temple of Abehadoh (Prekesch), after a village lying farther to the S. The main
chamber (25 ft, square, 10 ft. high) is adjoined on eachgside (ligand
22 m





