340 Route 34. scene. From sometimes:

8.) by a smaller sides-room, while at the back several steps lead into
a third room, the calla. The four clustered columns which support
the ceiling of the main chamber recall the proto-Doris columns of
Benihasan o. 12). A stone bench runs round the walls. On the
W. wall is Anuke suckling the infant King Horus, with the words:
u am thy mother, I give thee milk. it brings to thee peaceful life,
youth for thy limbs and strength for thy arms.' Beside her stands
the ram'shailed Khnum, lord of the fresh water in Tonal). On the
N.wall (left) King Horns appears before the ibis-headed Thoth and
four different forms of the god Horus, viz. as lord of Wim, of Ben
heni, of Bali, and of Maha - all names of places in Nubia. Over
the door into the left side-chamber is the certouchc of the king,
'beloved of Ammon-Ra and of Thoth'. On the N. wall the king is
led by the hand by Bath, with the ass's head and the god Home,
with the symbol of life. Some of the pictures are now scarcely recognizable. On the W. wall, to the right of the entrance, is the
king before Thoth, who promises him strength, health, and victory.
The two side-wreaths have neither pictures nor sculptures.

The Saracen fortress of Adder (W. bank), sometimes called
Shalom, is named Mashaltit by Champollion. In the mountains to
the S. of it are some almost inaccessible steles and a rock-eaves,
which is wider than it is deep. The care belonged to the scribe
Pontiac, prince of Rush and president of the S. lands, fan-bearer at
the king's left hand, Two-thirds of it are occupied by a broken
seated figure of a god. On the inner side of the entrance is the
kneeling figure of Power before Anuke, mistress of Amonhari.
On the walls we see one of the sun-worshipping kings (p. 23), via.



King Ai if ] m Re hkcpcru or mdi

(ch

of King Home, with sacrificial vessels before Amman, Fish, and
three different forms of Horus. Then prince Pa-uar appears again

before Anubis, Sebek, and King Ra kha ka (0 Q U User-te
sen 111. (12th Dye.) Part of the inscription with the name of Ammen is defaced.

On the rocky slope to the right of the entrance to the grotto is
a proshynema dedicated to the gods of the district, by Kala, son
of a Tumes.

The hill of Shetaui is the last spur on the E. bank of the range
of hills running close to the Nile from Ibrim, and presenting some
curious pyramidal formations. At this point the chain bends eastwards towards the desert On the W. bank, however, the river is
still skirted try hills for a short distance farther. On this bank lies
Fame, probably the Phthuris of Pliny, round which are numerous



'_ q q :1 1) Micro ai aster belt use, the predecessor



