to the Second Cataract. WADI HALFAH. 34. Route. 344

Roman remains and sculptures. Farther to the S. on the same bank,
above the island of Kargiu, is the village of Alcsheh, with a few sepulchral vaults and a small temple, in which Ramses If. warships
the god Amman in Pa-Rau-ma w, well as his own deified person.
Opposite Bench (E. bank), lie the ruins of a walled village, a little
beyond which, near Dibcrch (E. bank), occurs a fine palm-grove.
Above Ethical: (E. bank) are the tombs of the shékhs Omar and
'Ali. We next pass the island ofDabrva with a village of the same
name on the E bank, and. finally reach thi Relish, consisting of
several settlements, and named after a kind of" grass (Halfah) which
is here common. The present military station and'stopping-place
of the steamboat is named Ankish. A permanent garrison has been
stationed here since the war in the Sfidan, consisting of native regimments (mainly negroes) under British officers. An introduction to
the commandant is convenient and ensures a friendly welcome. A
railway, constructed for military purposes to avoid the second cataract, extended hence to (35 M.) Serves, 10 M. from Semneh, but
it has been partly destroyed by the dervishes and trains run now
only to (23 M.) Stgajah (trains start on Mon. and Thursffat 8 can,
returning the same day at 4 p.m.; fare IL; specie } trains may be
obtained for 55.). The village of Wadi Halfah proper lies 11/4 M
farther to the S. 011 the bank opposite What Halfah the remains of
two temples were found close together, and were described by
Champollion. The North Temple, now no longer visible and either
entirely destroyed or buried, was dedicated to Khem-Ammon in
Beheni (Wadi Halfah). It contained pillars with the name of Amenhotep IL, and also a stale of Ramses i. (new in the Louvre, and
in the sanctuary was found a stale of Usertesen I. Dyng, with
a list of conquered tribes (new in Florence). The Southern Temple
has recently been exhumed by Col. Smith, and may be conventently visited in connection with the excursion to the rocks of Abusir [ see below), as It Has on the way thither, 1/4 hr. to the S. of the
ferry. It was dedicated by Tutmes 111. to the Home
of Behcni. To the left of the entrance is a stale of the 23rd year of
Tutmes UL, in which the victories of that king over the Fenekhn
(thnicians), Retennn, and Tehennu are mentioned. The columns
and pillars are covered with weli-preserved sculptures.

Some alterations require-to he made in the dhahabiyeh to prepare it for the return-voyage downstream. The long yard is unushipped and stowed on the top of the cabin, the large lateen-sail is
replaced by a smaller one, and the planks of the fore-deck are removed to make room for rowing-thwarts, While the sailors are
thus engaged the traveller should not omit to visit the Second Gatareet and to ascend the rocks of Abusir (W. bank) which may be
reached in 1-2 hrs. The latter not only command the best view of
the broad and rushing cataract, but also enable the visitor to see
for to the S. The expedition may he made either by limit passing





