342 Route 34. who: snow.

the island omez'wb, at the beginning of the rapids, or more safely
on land by donkey or the quicker and more agreeable camel. Travellers by land must cross to the opposite bank. The British com-.
mandant will on request kindly telephone to the fort opposite to
have the necessary camels in readiness; but donkeys must be taken
from the E. bank. The route at first skirts the stream, passing the
above-mentioned temple of Home of Beheni, then turns inland
towards the mountain ridge, finally ascending with considerable
steepness to a plateau, where the donkeys or camels are left. The
summit of the hill is reached on foot in about 5 min. more after a
somewhat steep climb. A rock on the stop bears the names of some
famous travellers, including that of Champollion. The view of the
broken cataract, which extends for 5 M., is very interesting. The
stream here forces its way through ferreous sandstone, not through
granite as at Assudn. The boulders at the foot of the rock are
coated with dark ferreous Nile mud. The view southwards to the
blue hills of New Dengolah is not less attractive, and kindles the
desire to visit Upper Nubia, which contains numerous most interesting antiquities between this point and Khar, t, tlm, We think of
the temples of Sale?) and Sescbi, the temples and pyramids of Neri, Merci with its group of pyramids, and the temples of Nagahund ebureaur6t. All these, however, are at present forbidden regions for the minim At most he
may visit the ancient fortresses of Semneh and Kumah. situated
in the Beta elmHager (belly of stones), 3'? M. from dei Halfah.
These contain buildings of the 12th Dyn. and the remains of two
temples built by Tutmes UL; and they are interesting also for the
records of the height of the Nile under the 12th Dym, which show
that 2600 years before mum the Nile rose about 25 ft. higher than
it does to-day.

To visit these spots we take the railway to (23 hi.) Sign-fa (2 hard;
see p. 341), thence proceed by donkey to (12 hi.) Serra: and (10 hi.) Kornmsh. Semneh, on the opposite bum is reached by boat or by one of the
native rafts made of palm-logs. The expedition from Wturi Halfah and

back mites 2-3 days. Permission from the military authorities is necessary, and is somewhat unwillingly granted as Scrunch lies beyond the lines.

It is much to be hoped that the time will soon come when the
way will be open as far as Khartdm, which fell into the hands of
the Mahdists on J an, 27th 1885, when the brave Gordon met his
death The possession of Khartilm and the security not only of the
Nile-route thither but also of the desert-router from Berber to Sud--him are the necessary conditions for the gradual civilization of the
Stdin.








