343
35. The Western Gases.

D
By the term Oust: (old Egypt. Utah, Greek adders (Strobe XVHJQD,

at

is understood a fertile and inhabited spot in the midst of the desert. The
oases owe their fertility to the springs which rise in them, frequently
thermal and containing iron, sulphur, or other mineral ingredients. The
most abundant trees in the oases are the date-palm, mum ut various
kinds (Acacia Nilotica or sentences), apricots, and other fruit-treee; the
chief grain--crops are wheat, barley, and rice, with a little dura (Sorghum
vulgare) and dukhn (Penisiltarto spindle); and indigo, tobacco, and cotton
are also grown (see Vol. L, pp. 63 seq.).

Seven oases are mentioned in the Ptolemaic inscriptions in the temple

at Edfu. According to deichen the first of these, Maw" Kenm, corre
sponds to the oasis of ty1urhiirgeh, the second, V. desert, to Dakhel,

the third, I: _;; Alas, to Fardfrah, the fifth, the N. oasis, to Bahriyeh, the

[ 2:2
sixth, to the region
0 0 O



a
Easiest emu, to Mwah.
A aim ler arrangement, recognized as early as utmes TIL, divides them
into anthers and Southern (loses, the first signifying probably Bohrtyeh,
the latter Khdrged and mum, The two last were also united under the
name Great Oasis (ducts nerdlnE, distinguished at the same time as the

cum R > Lg; I "W-mtl, el-kharigeh) and the Inner Oasis

($ 950.5 Joy BI-wtu, ,1 ed-dakhilehj, The oasis of Bahriye'h, the North
em Oasis was also called the Small Oasis (duets escort), and frequently
also El-wdh elnbehnesah, because the route to it diverged at Bennamh un mm
Ni MOM travellers who wish to see an oasis will be satisfied with a
visit to Khdrgeh and perhaps also to Ditkhel, for the visit to Siwah involves a long and fatiguing journey. The latter, however, is also described below on account of its great historical interest.

For a visit to the oases a. caravan of riding and sumpterscamels is
necessary. Riding Camels or drornedaries travel about 28 M. in 12 hrs,
or considerably more if pressed (comp. p. 75):, ordinary camels only about
19 miles. The camels should be divided into convenient groups, and the
traveller should make sure that he has a comfortable saddle for his ride
of eight days or more. A tent, a generous supply of tinned provisions,
and water must also he provided. Water may be carried either in cache
(hermit), leather skins (which, however, impart a disagreeable flavour to
their contents after a day or two), or still better in iron coffers lined
with enamel (refills). The services of a trustworthy caravan--leader should
be secured by application to a consular agent or other reliable authority,
and guns, powder and shot, and a supply of money in small coins and
Maria Theresa thalers should be provided. The traveller should avoid
displaying large sums of money before the Arabs, and he should be strict
in maintaining the discipline of the caravan.





