L From Came to Assmt.
Comp. um, pp. 3, 8.
a. By Railway.

229 M. The railway-station. aster sci-Deleon which is also the starting-point of the direct line to Teh el-Bdrdd and Alexandria, is situated
on the W. bank of the me, 3 M. from Cairo (connection with main
msnwestattvn in prospect). Carriage from the hotel to the station a in;
for heavy luggage a second carriage is necessary, as the baggageawaggons
earshot be implicitly relied on. Passengers should be at the station early,
as the processes of ticket--taking and luggage-weighing are by no means
expeditious, The first-class carriages are, of course, the most comfortable
from a European point of view, and first--class passengers are allowed to
take with them in their compartment all their smaller mum of baggage
and even mum. The natives almost invariably travel seconds-class, and
those who wish to make a nearer acquaintance with the country and the
people should, perhaps, select a second-class compartment, in spite of its
offering less resistance to the incursion of the m ow desert sand (comp.
Baedeker'a Lower Ems, p. it. - Fuse to Assam in class 171.8 piastres
(Turkish), 2nd class 114.5 pica, 3rd class 571 2 pias. Payment at the station
may be avoided by previously buying voue are at the agencies of either
Cook or (lace, and exchanging them at the railwayestation through the
dragoman of the agency. The trains start (1891) at 8.30 arm, 3 pan. (for
Waateh and intermediate stations), and 7 p.111. a Frid. only). Those
who wish to go on at once by steamboat from Assidt should take the memo
ing train on the preceding day (see Introduction, p. xvi; and comp. Cook's or
Gaze's Tourists" Programme). The journey to Asset um nominally 1mm,
but the trains are generally late. A timetable showing the names of mucus
in French and Arabic and giving distances in English miles is published
by Penasson of Alexandria and may be bought at the ticket-offices. Travellers should provide themselves with a supply of meat, bread, and wine,
as no stoppage is made for dinner, eggs, bread, water (glass necessary) are
altered for me m the, mum. Seats should at first be taken on the right
side for the sake of the view of the Pyramids; from Minyeh onwards the
left side is preferable, for the view of the Nile valley and Benihasan .---- The railway follows the course of the Nile pretty closely, and a sufficient
idea of the views from the carriage-windows may be obtained from the
account of the dhnhabiyeh'voyage mum The following is a list of the railway-stations, nearly all of which are also steamer-stations. For descriptions, can the text. sum »: Gisela, Hawamdiyeh; "M. (1/2 hr. from Cairo)
Bedroom (p. 2); 51 M. (13/4 hr. from Bedrashen) EleWastoh (p. A; m: of
8 min), the junction of the line to the msyiirss m. 2, p. 34); defense: (to
the right, in the distance, the pyramid of Elisha »); Bosh (p. 5); 71 M,
Benign" (g. 5:, b; rail. stat. all M. from the Nile); 841/2 hi. Bitch (p. 6) the
junction of a branch-line need for the transfer-tattoo of sugarcane; EEK.
Pasha (g. 6):, 106 M. Haghdgkah (p. 6):, if?. Abe (liege?) (p. 8y Mogdysh,
with a andsome bridge over a canal (left); 128 M. Redoh (p. 18);
178151. Heme: ez-nmm (p. 22):, on » Heads (to the left or E., with.
the mound marking the site of Tests Superior, not to be confused with
Tania in the Delta); 190 M. Dim: sab-Sh (p. 28r, Btrsidrorrzhn, 210 ll.
Konfaltlt (p. 31).

b. By the true.

252 hi. Arrangements, see introduction, p. xi.
As soon as a favourable wind Springs up (which, however, has
sometimes to he waited for for hours), the dhahnbiyeh is cast "and
Bananas: Upper Egypt. his



