Oates. SinH. 35. Route. 345

_ a:
men itself, we give it the name recognized by deichen, i.e. H q, () Q
©

saw Ame, is.'deld of trees",'deld of date-puma'.

The oasis and the oracle of Ammon were celebrated from a remote
antiquity. Bacchus is said to have been the first to consult the oracle;
and in the legend of Perseus and Andromeda ma Utter WM said to have
been offered to the sea-monster to save her country, in obedience to a
response of this god. Hercules presented a great ofi'ering to Amman. Semiramis
consnlted the oracle on her expedition to Egypt. The law-giver Bocchoris
(lichen-rant"; 28th Dying 8th cent. 3.0.) expelled the J ewe from the land at the
bidding of the god. Penmmetikh L monea me Garims with plumes ofcoek's
feathers in obedience to his response. Herodotus relates (Ill, 25, um um
Oambysea seat 50, C00 men to take the Ammonites slaves and to destroy their
oracle with fire. This force reached the city of Oasis, also called the Island
of the Blessed, after T days march, and then vanished into space, apparently
being overwhelmed by a whirlwind. The oasis and its oracle are, however, best known from the visit of Alexander the Great, recorded by Diodorus (XVII, 49), Quinton Cartier, and Ari-tan after Aristobulns. After
Alexander had made himself master of Phoenicia. by the battle of Issue,
he marched to Egypt which submitted without resistance. Desiring to
consult the famous Oracle of Amman, he undertook the adventurous march
through the desert. Ambassadors from Cyrene met him with a valuable
gift of war-horses. His supply of water came to an end after four days,
and he was only saved from perishing by an unexpected fall of rain. The
way was pointed out to him by crows, flying on the right side of the
army. He passed the Bitter Lakes, then 100 stadia (about 10 M.) farther
the so-called Cities of Ammon, and another day's journey brought him to
the vicinity of the temple. Diodorus thus describes the place.'The Ammonites dwell in villages, but in the midst of their land is a castle defended by a triple wall. The first (is. innermost) wall encloses the palace of the ruler; the second the woman's apartments, with the dwellings
of the women and children and the palladia of the place, with the temple
of the god and the sacred spring; the third encloses the abode of the
spearmen, am A little beyond the castle another temple of Ammon has
been erected under the shade of numerous large trees. Hear it is a spring,
celled Spring of the See on account of its peculiar properties. It is warm
in the morning, cold at midday, and hot at midnight. The image of the
god is encrusted with emeralds and other game, and gives its oracular
responses in a curious way. It is carried in a golden boat on the shoalders of eighty priests, who direct their course according to signs from the
god. Women and girls accompany the god with songs".

When Alexander entered the temple he was hidden welcome by the
oldest priest in the name of the god. Alexander accepted the welcome
and promised to worship the god, if he gave him the lordship of the
whole earth. The king then naked whether all the murderers of his father had been punished. The oracle replied that no one could aim at the
life of him that had made him (is. of the god); but that the murderers
of Philip were punished

The Oasis of Starch, formerly called also swam (after Iskander, Alexander the Great) lies, according to Jordan's calculations, 95 it. below the
see-level, in N. lat. 29012 and long. 25031' E. of Greenwich. Browne
estimated the length of the oasis at 71/2 M., its breadth at 6 M, Rohlfs
estimates the length from Mamet in the W. to Marley Yes in the E. at
about 181/2 hi, in a line running first N.W. and SE. and beyond Siwah AW
and NE. The breadth varies from a few yards to 11/4 M. It is situated
on the S. verge of the steep so~called Libyan consuming", which com
aim of limestone, and on the S. it is bounded by sand-hills.

Several steep rocks are found in the oasis; as. the Amem! and mm
In theW., 1/231. Global Brit: to the S.E. of the
capital. Of the numerous warm springs (upwards of So } u the oasis,
the strongest are those of Method, and the most famousginfp do:





