346 Route M. shun. The Western

(see below), with a little salt (a 1615 0/9), die Hose }: (spring of loan) to
the N, The climate is unhealthy only
towards the end of summer, when the evaporation of the numerous marshes
induces fevers. These mums (HMM) add largely to the difficulty
of travelling about the oasis. The mean temperature is 77° Fahr. - The
oasis contains about ammo date--palms; and about Ban tuna (9000 me! mm) of dates are annually exported to North Egypt by the Beduin tribe
of the Waled-JAH. The olive tree also flourishes here, oranges and in »
mono in linearised, and throughout the oasis grapes, pomegranates, apri
an' peaches, plums, and a kind of dwarf apple....... Live stock is not
numerous, owing to a dangerous fly, about as large as a bee, whose sting
is fatal to cattle and mum. Wild pigeons abound. ~--Salt is procured
by evaporation in an almost pure state. Sal ammoniac is prepared by
artificial distillation from camels" dung, Minutoli estimated the number
of the inhabitants M moot mthm st 6600. The two principal tribes, the
Lifayeh and the Roar-byte, both of which include numerous sub-tribes, are
hostile to each other, - The annual tribute to the Egyptian government
is 10,130 Maria Theresa thalers, equal to about mom An Egyptian governor presides over the oasis. Strangers are quartered in the av to
the N. of the castle of Siwah, near the date-magazine and the dome of
didi some. Starch and Alumni, the chief towns situated like castles upon
steep rocks, lie about 3 M. apart. The streets of both Are narrow simh
belongs to the Ltfayah and only the portion of the oasis to the S.W. of
it belongs to the Rhm'byin, including Akermi. The Lifayah are forbidden
to enter Akermi, in consequence of their having suddenly seized the town
about to tears age, though they were afterwards repelled by the Rue.
byin. Shdkh Mohammad Wars", the richest man in the oasis, resides at
Akerrni as head of the natives.

The mine now to be found are very scanty. The trigle-walled castle
described by lliodorus (see p. 345) appears to be identide with the loftily
situated Abel-mi, also called Sharttysh. An early Egyptian structure,
discovered here in 1 & 3 under some modern houses by the Scottish
traveller James Emitter, was easily recognized as the fore-court and
chamber of a temple or palace. The interior walls were covered with
hieroglyphics, but so blackened with smoke that the kings' cartouches
could not be recognized. In the thickness of the well was a narrow
passage, 6 it. long and 2 ft. wide. In an adjoining street was a colossal
Egyptian gate. Rthfs confirmed this discovery in KW), Passing along a
narrow, winding passage, he observed a building with foundation-walls
of hewn stones, and to the W. of it he came upon the large edifice, the
outer wane of which are visible from outside the village, while the
inner wall extends to the great square of Alter-mi. A rough passage
admits to a forecourt, 15 ft. long and 10 ft. broad. Two large Egyptian
gateways (181/, high) lead to the holy of holies, which is entirely obstmcted by houses; the gateway: can be passed only through the houses.
Rohlfs found a large number of pictures and ineeri tiona here, and
copied some of them by candle-alight. The 68119. was ft. long, 18th a.
broad, and 181/. R. high. A secret passage, 2 ft. wide, within the E. wall
communicated with the great well of Akermi.

About 300 panel: to the S. of Akermi lie the ruins of Um $ 834.5 };
(white mother), facing the town and lying from N. to S. In the time of
Gailliaud and Minutoli the mine consisted of the left wing of the gateway and a covered portion behind. The former, which nu now disappeared, contained the representation of a king offering to the min.
headed Amman and his female companion. The other portion, which
still remains, is W/s tt long (at place! only 10% a.) and about% ft.
high, with a passage 16% ft. wide. On the right and left sides are processions of gods in several rows, with the above-mentioned mm's-heeded
Amman as the chief deity. Above these gods are numerous vertical lines
of hieroglyphica ~55 0n the W. wall, 53 on the E. (lam-wot which we
unfortunately possess no copies. The ceiling consists of three (before
the earthquake in 1811 of five) massive stone blocks, a, n. long, 5 ft.
broad, and 3 R. thick, decorated with vultures (the symbol t l dship)





