Ones. siWAH. 35. Route. 347

and stars. Curtius states that the figure of the god was like a naval;
round it were emeralds and other precious stones. The extent remains
date from a late period; a fragment bearing a royal wneuehe sppeare me
am trom Neutanehua L

Minumu mmm misntiotte me cornerstouei of a Girdle Wall Rear
the temple; they are still to be found at the NE. angle. The girdle-wall
was 7'? paces long and M paces broad. It a parently belonged to the
second temple mentioned by Diodorus (see p., for in a pretty palmgrove only about 1/2 hi. to the 83. of it is the Sun Spring, known also
to Herodotus av, 181). This oval spring, about 110 paces in circumference, is now called into Easement, The story of the peculiar properties
of this spring, repeated by all the ancient writers, in virtue of which its
temperature varied at different periods of the day, rests upon error. For
the water has a uniform temperature otT? Ni' Farm, though it may sometimes appear warmer than it many is, in the often very cold nights,
while at midday it may seem almost cold in contrast to the heat of the
burning sun.

Rohlfs failed to find in Siwah any confirmation of the statements of
the natives, reported by St. John, that some of the houses rest upon
more ancient buildings.---To the N, or hill
of the dead, a limestone hill about 150 it. high and 1600 yds. In circumference, perforated with hundreds of vaults, graves, and catacombs.
Some of the vaults are large enough for a hundred or more corpse; All
the graves have been rifled, and heaps of skulls and shattered skeletons
He around. Half way up the hill, on the E. side, is a solitary tomb of
more pretensions, with its entrance adorned with puma". Beyond a
fore-court is a spacious sepulchral chamber, with two Mile-rooms, and
adorned with a vivid green garland of vine-leaves on a blue ground. In
the background are some defaced chiselled figures. At Beled er-Ram, to
the W. of Siwah, is another cemetery excavated in a hill. Here also are
the remains of an ancient Egyptian temple (Kagr zr-Ram }, 52 n. long by

151/2 ft. broad, without any hieroglyphics. A little to the N. of this
temple are some scanty remains of a we period, on the hill Umthiea
(Two Columns). At Bat el~Msdtasiz, 3 M. to the SSW. of Siwah, Rohlfs
discovered a marble ram, now in the museum at Berlin-This Lat: of
Arethtysh, about so M. to the N.W. of Siwah, is of little importance,
though the French colonel Berth; was induced by the wonderful tales of
the Arabs to bring a boat for the purpose of exploring it.



On the return" from the oasis to Terdosh, or to Kafr Bowed (Vol.1,
. 225), a station on the railway from Tab elqurfid to Boldly. cl~Dakrdr,
and the Nile, the traveller should not omit to visit the liatron finnesteries. Leaving Siwah wejourney rid. sl-Korah (Umm eu. V gm, 2 days),
el-G'atarah, mum). tmr mm, 3 days), and el-Mdghmh (1 day), and on
the eighth day reach the depression known as the Bale belah mdh or'River
without water", which baa various branches, as egg the 5, in the direction of SatW'strah. Zittel and Jordan have demonstrated
that the valleys grouped under the name of Bohr belah math could never
have been occupied by side channels of the Nile as was at one time so posed. A somewhat stee slope separates this depression from the We i
Rattan (90 hi. long, 1' }? hi. broad), the district called Nitric: or Mama
by the Greeks, where, according to Straho, serum was worshipped. The
Coptic name of Nitric was 1' mom pt" harem, the Egyptian name
E Pi use an pi imam, the Egyptian name

kt & WKE C', -',:, ?, P5 mu m pi beam » or'plane of
000
It owes its name to the natron which is obtained here in great
"mine; by evaporation; natron being in fact a salt containin with
2% of common salt and iii/s of sulphate of sodium, about 9/9 of
carbonic natron. The preparation of the natron is carried on at the
expense of government, and constitutes an important industry
somewhat injured by the manufacture of artificial soda. about é





