348 Route M, FARKFRAH. The Whom

the B. of Wadi Bates, (romp, the Map at the beginning of Vol. I.) are
four Septic monasteries, a visit to which is interesting. The monasteries
owe their origin to "warm: of Alexandria (d. 394), a hermit who first
retired to the Theben desert in 335, and afterwards, about 373, took up
his abode in a lonely cell in this spot. He was the founder of an order
that won numerous disciples. The monks me all the year round, except
on Sundays and between Easter and Whitsuntidc. Reflect mentions fifty
monasteries of ascetics, who numbered 5000 in all. In the year 800 the
ruined monastery of St. Moonrise was repaired and fortified by Sonatina,
patriarch of Alexandria. The next most interesting monastery is that of
smear, built by a saint named Home: or Johannes the dwarf. It has
8040 monks and 8 churches. (farms: and afterwards Tattoos and Pasha,
who visited the monastery twice, here found most valuable collections
of Syrian mm, acquired between 1840 and 1 & 0. These 19138., in 371
vols, of which the olden In one by Erection of Edema (411 AD.) and
twelve of the 6th cent, included the Theophany and other writings of
sums" of Clemens, a treatise against the
Manichwsns by Tides of Basra, am. This monastery contains also an
Abyssinian college with a library.~--There is little chance of discovering
any more valuable BESS. here, as all except those required for the religious
seréices have been transferred to the library of the Coptic patriarch
at him).

A visit to the remaining monasteries, of Bummer (Coptic liturgical
nos.) and Arabs Bisthai, with three small churches, scarcely re aye the
trouble, and is not recommended on account of (base and other monasteries in the Levant are contained in R. Carson's Visits to the Monasteries in the Levant (London,
1849), and in Quatrcmtrs's Mdmoires Géographiqucs, Vol. L pp. Am seq.
(Paris, 1811).

H. The Cases of Bahriyeh and Farafmh.

The visit to the oasis of Bahrlyeh (the Northern Oasis), called by
Strobe holiness,'the Second", and by Ptolemy smegma,'the Small Oasis",
is of interest only to the naturalist, for its antiquities are few and unimportant. The latter include a small Roman triumphal arch (Caillieud,
March, 11. P1. 39, 40, 42) and a stale of the reign of Tutmes 111., besides
the scanty remains of a temple at a tempie "nmm (Amman).



The oasis of Partisan, probably the To star or

Cots-Inna of antiquity (temple of Edfu), as the latter is described as to the
NW) of Kareem, the great oasis, is of importance merely as an intermediate station between the oases of Siwah and Dtkhel, or the oases of
Bahriyeh and nakhen It contains no antiquities, but some catacombs
in a cliff to the W. suggest that there was at one time a Christian
settlement here. The mass which has only $ 20 mum, has been since
1860 entirely in the hands of the, a rigid Mohammedan sect, founded
by Mohammad Swan of Algiers (Vol. L, p. 67). The people are suspicious
of and hostile to strangers. The chief village is gamma, two days" journey
to the W. of Siwah.

m. The Oasis of elnxhhrgeh.

Authorities. flattened, Voyage e l'Oasis do Thebes 1821. Huskies,
Visit to the Great Oasis of the Libyan Desert, 1837. Rohlfs, Drei Mosaic
in der libyschen Wiiste, 18%. ill. Brutgsrh, Boise nach der grosses Dace
ovihEirgeh, 1878.

A journey to the oasis of remorse }: is much more interesting and
less difficult than that to the oasis of Jo itcr Ammon, and it may be
combined with a visit to dehel. El-Khargeh may be reached in M
days from { mu }; (Drovetti, Schweinfnrth), from 801133., Girgeh, Farshdt
(above Be1itrsshJ, from main near Erment (Huskies), or from Ranch





