Omen. KHKBGEH. 35. Route. 349

mainland; Rohlf's return journey } Sohig, Girgeh, and Beach are the
preferable starting-points, as they are towns of some site Where the
necessary number of camels is easily obtained. About to hrs. are required frum Sohig "Girgeh; while 50~52 are required from Esneh, bow
cause the road leads chiefly over rocky soil, and is therefore more
exhausting for the camels. Camels, water, provisions, fire-arms, etc. must
be provided as mentioned on p. 343.

This oasis was visited by Forrest in 1690, by Browne in 1793, and in
the present century by mum": (1818), Homing (1835),
P. W. Grey (1843), Rohlfs, with Zittel, Jordan, Ascherson, and Remele
(1874), and Brugsch (1875). The excellent photographs taken by Remelé
have contributed largely to our knowledge of the temple of el-Khiirgeh.

The oasis of el-Khargeh (the enter, in contrast to llakhileh, the
inner, is. farther into the desert) is named Kansas in the inscription at
Edfu referring to the men. while in an older inscription in the tomb
a c:

ty
m m, in contrast to el-Bahriyeh, the North Omit. Olympiodorus names
it deals ncydirg iEwripm, the Great Outer Oasis, Strobe 7) chairs } atlases,
the First Oasis, and Ptolemy, the Great Oasis. It is also referred to as the
Oasis of the mastoid. The ancient name of the town with the temple was

E i B' Hit, mo written, Town of the Plough, whence its

garrison is mentioned in the Notitia Diguitrrtura as um primal Abasgomm
Hibeos 0mm among:

Like all the oases ssl-Khalsa is surrounded by a tolerably steep
chain of cretacious limestone hills, which rises in terraces to the height
of 1475 it. on the side next the desert, and sinks down again towards
the oasis (Katabathmus, descent). The oasis stretches from N. to S. for
about 90 31.64 hrs. travel), and from E. to W. only 12 M. (4-5 mm,
and its population was estimated by Schweinfurth at 6340. The natives
who pay an annual tribute of 300 purses (500 piastres or 1043. each), or 15603.,
to the Egyptian government, are of a dark complexion and are far from
good looking. Every summer they are subject to an intermittent fever,
which is fatal to many. They speak Arabic though they are not pure
felliihin from the Nile but are mixed with the Libyan race. The oasis is
ruled by an Egyptian governor (Hakim). The chief town st-strgeh has
about 3000 inhabitants. Genoa): and Imus; y tn um h'., have each about 250,
B5?" 900, Dash and Kai: each 100, according to the moderate estimates
of Gamma. - There are about 150 springs in the oasis, most of them
issuing freely from clefts in the cretaceous marl. Several were discovered
by boring, and in this way the fertility of the oasis was increased. Some
of them are warm (88°-97° F.) and are strongly impregnated with iron.
The chief wealth of the oasis consists in its date--palms, 65,000 in number.

The town of el-eh-s lies in let. 25° 58' N., and long, mo 40' E.
of Greenwich, at a height of about 245 ft. above the sets-level (Email
345'to. The chief object of interest is the temple lying a full hour to
the NE. of the town. Immediately on quitting the brick wall that
encircles the town, we see on the right the domed tombs of some Arab
shdkhs. Our route leads past some enclosed palm-groves end creases
some dry watercourses. The ruins of the small building like a temple,
but destitute of hieroglyphics, which Cailliaud discovered half-way between the town and the large temple, seem new to have disappeared, as
has also a still smaller building with a sunk doorway to the S. of the
temple.

The Large Temple of eFKlshrgeh, 150 it. long and about 60 n, brand
is a well-preserved structure built of a reddish sandstone, which Zittel
believes to have been quarried in Lower Nubia. Its axis runs E. and W...
with a slight inclination to the N. In front of the temple is a forecourt
and three successive gateways at irregular distance ». Remains of both
the Wings of the outermost gateway are left- 013 i336 Pighiw a is "" 3









