350 Route 35. KHARGEH. The Worm

top of the E. side, a gym B it, high and 6 ft. bread, is occupied by a
long inscription of 66 lines, reported both by Oailliand and Hashins. In
this inscription, which dates from the 2nd year of the emperor Guide
69 A.l.l.), Julius Demetrius, governor of the oasis, communicates the
answer of the provincial governor ligands), Tiberius Julius Alexander, to
the complain! » of the inhabitants of t e oasis against the illegal sunshine of
taxes, etc., to the efi'ect that future extortion is forbidden under penalties
and that what hag been unjustly exacted will be restored. On the left
side also, lower down, are some shorter Greek inscription », One of these,
by the general (creatures) Parameter, dated the 7th Mekhir of the emperor
Tiberius Claudius, directs attention to a decree by the provincial governor
11mm Vt'wmua Capt », inscribed below. This decree warns against payments to unauthorized extorters of money, and means the latter with
severe punishment, viz. the payment of ten times the extorted sum. as
penalty besides restitution fourfold to the victim .--Traces of an avenue
of sphinxes exist between the first and second gateways, which are 50 ft.
apart. Only a fragment of the left (8.) wing of the Second Gateway is
standing. Some crudely executed representations on its inner side depict
an unnamed emperor- (the cartouche is empty) before AmmonnRa, Hath,
and Tum, lord of Hit (u, oVKurget0, The Third Gateway, 1 & 0 ft. from
the second, is still entire. It is 15 ft. broad.
Beneath the cornice appears the well-known winged sunvdisc with the
serpents of both lands. The lintel below has two representations on the
right side: an unknown king before Amnesia-Ra and Rheum, and then
before Harmachis; on the left the same king appears before Tum, then
before daemon--Ra, Use, and Month.

The next two fields on the right and left are destroyed. Then on the
Q%,, , _

right, Darius IL (? noun 3.0.) < 2-:' i) l appears thrice,

vie. before Anhor and ream", before Isis and ephthys, and before Horse,
Isis, and Nephthys. On the left the same king "em before Osiris,
Horst-isis, and Isis, then before Khnum, and finally efore Thoth in Ha:
and the gods of his cycle. On the inside of this doorway Darius appears
on the left with the figure of Me. before Ammon-Ra, lord of Hit, and on
the right (where his name is almost illegible) before eunuch-Re, the hueband of his mother, presenting to him two palm--trees. Two vertical inscriptions on the exit from this pylon (right and left) are also noteworthy.
These refer to the above-mentioned Darius as'the beloved of Alumna-Ba,
Lord of Heb, the great god, strong with the sword", and continue:'He
has built the walls (east) of good white stone for a mate (dwelling) of
the god, its doom of acacia-wood, covered with Asiatic brass in excellent
enduring workmanship. May (the gods) grant him innumerable festival:
on the seat of Home". The deal s on the W. side of the pylon are no
longer distinguishable. About, ft. behind this third gateway is the
Fore-court, 52 n, my and so n. broad, the front of which has fallen. It
contained four engaged columns, two at the front corners and two at the
sides, and had also a door on each side, of which that to the right (N)
is still entire. This latter bears the cartouches of king Nekhthorheo
(Neetanebua L), of the 30th Dyn. (378-364 3.0.), on the right before Tam,
on the left before Month. This king was the builder of the fore-court,
and his cartouches also appear on the aide-doom in the following portal,
the architrare of which is imperfect To the left Nekhthorheb a pears
before Ham and Sakhet, then, below, before Month and Use, and unity
before Autumn--Ra, Mum and Khnum; to the right he appears before
Osiris and Isis, then before Thoth and Maharishi, and finally before the
ram% headed Ammon and Much. The gods are styled lords of 31%
Q
m or presidents (em of that town. The following First

Hall, with 12 fan-palm columns, is believed by Brngsch to be a late
(Roman?) restoration of a former hall destroyed by an earthquake. He





