ams. KHRRGEH. 35. Bonk, Route. 351

describes it as being without inscriptions or representation, though
Hoskins reports otherwise. In the N. and S.W. angles are two separate
spaces with double chambers, one above the other. The next room is
the most remarkable part of the temple. This is the Sect-vista: Chamber,
a narrow apartment with a row of four columns supporting the roof,
while four others are engaged in the entrancewwall. The builder was
Darius, who is here named in a ascend cartonche,'the beloved of mix, the strong-sworded', whilst elsewhere he is usually styled'the
beloved of its and Amman" (see below). On the inside of the entrancewall, to the right, the king is shown kneeling and presenting two vessels
of wine, before the ratn's-headed Amman, lord of Hib, Math, and Mouth
Two finely carved lines 0: hieroglyphics beside this scene state:'This is
Ammo of me, the great god, strong with the sword; may they (the gods)
grant constant peaceful life'. Beneath is the empty cartonche of the king.
On the left side the cartouche beneath a similar inscription is filled in
with the king's name; while the accompanying representation shows the
king presenting wine (of the oasis) to Osiris, Horns, lsis, and Nephthys.
The highly interesting inscriptions and representations on the walls of
the narrow chamber lend it a peculiar importance. Thus at the top, to
the left, of the S. wall is the Persian king in an attitude of worship,
presenting a rich offering to the ie, Between him and the node is a
long In of offerings, in horizontal lined. Beneath this scene, and beginning in me me. corner, is a Song of Praise, composed by the king in
honour of the Bun- od lie in very pantheistic terms. This song, in
46 um, was first pu lished after copies by Robert Hey, the companion
of Rockies, and translated by S. Birch (Transactions of the Bibi. Arch.
Society, Vol. V, London 1876), then more completely by Brussels in his
'Reise um. der groBen Oase' (pp. 276 seq., Plates Kn" xx svn). On
the E. Wall (back-wail) are sacrificial scenes on both sides, corresponding
to each other, to Ammon-Ra, Much, and Khnnsu. Amman hat) the ram's
head like the god of the Oasis of Ammon. Towards the N.W. corner of
this wall is a mystic inscription, with the title above it:'The mysterious
sayings of Ammon which are on the tables of mulberry-wood." This text
refers to the secret character of Amman, the pantheistic god of the oasis,
whose oracular importance appears from the passage'his voice is heard,
but be is not visible to all who drew breath" (line. On the door-pests
on each side of the entrance to the next room is an inscription in the
sewcalled enigmatic (the. secret) characters, of which a duplicate is found
on the outside of the aw. wall of the temple. This next room has four
columns, and on each side are two side-rooms. The builder was again
Darius. The central door in this room admits to the Sanctuary, the small
door on the right to another room, which evidently was once connected
with the sanctuary, for the mystic representations of the two rooms, as
reported by Huskies, are parts of one whole. The partition-wall must
be a later addition. The door to the left admits to a staircase, leading
straight on to a crypt, and ascending to the left to the Osiris rooms,
which are on the temple-roof as at Philm, Denderah, and Edie. Op »
posits the last flight of steps is a finely--executed inscription:'List of
the sacrifices made by King Darius in the golden hall for Amman of
Bib, the great god, strong with the sword'. Another list beneath
contains a catalogue of the sacrificial wines from the various districts
of Egypt; at the top the Wine of the Oasis. Of the three Osiris
rooms, the middle one contains the most interesting representations.
At the top of the N. wall is Osiris lying on ahier, beneath him are four
accept, to the right Isis and Nephthys; in the section below the Dead
Osiris lies on the ground with Isis and Nephthys kneeling beside him.
The latter are represented as saying:'Thon art in millions of years,
thy soul is raised to heaven with the soul of Re. I am the light by day,
thou art the moon at night". To the right is the ball Apis, running with
the Osiris-mommy on its back- to the left is a frog mm) as the representative of Osiris. At the ottom is Osiris resting in the grass as
[ them of Raptor, with Khem, leis, and Nephthys beside him, - A fragment of an inscription on the outside of the w. wall m Um





















