352 Route 35. The Wartern

side the figure of a king) is noteworthy from the fact that it assigns

another prwnomen to Darius, vie. Setter-a, which closely

resembles one "the human of the names of Ramses II. a. Lepsius

I:
proposes to recognize in this the name, not of the builder of the inner
chambers, but of Darius I. (521-486 13.0.); but as this king is expressly
styled the'beloved of Ammon Ra, lord of Bib, strong with the sword',
he is doubtless to be identified with Darius, accompanied by Hathor with a sistrum and
year--rings, od'ers to Amman Ra, lord of the thrones of both the lands of
Apt-ass. (Thebes). On the outside of the it. well of the temple is another
==
cartouche of Darius y A Amman Rooters. Whether this he
longs to another Darius than that named in the other cartouches, perhaps
Darius L, or whether this belongs to Darius ll. and the name Setters to
Darius L, must remain undecided.'

H. Brugsch has proved from an inscription found at Luxor (Stele
Meunier), of the 25th year of Pinoeem l. (1033 B.C.), that the oasis was
used from an early period as a place of banishment. In c, man times
the schismatic Nectarine (435 A.DO was banished hither (p.60 Christian
monks settled here, protecting themselves against the attacks of the Bednins from a place of refuge on the top of the temple, traces of which
were seen by Hoskins.

At Nodomh, a little to the SE. of the great temple, are the ruins of
a temple of the Roman period, 9 paces long by 12 broad. It has three
doors, above the central and more carefully built of which is the winged
sun-disc. Within the little building is, found the name of the emperor
Antonino", which also occurs at Kagr ezWapdn (see below). He is here said
to conduct to the god the land of Run or Him with its possessions and
the W. land with its wines. On the outside are a few Comic names.

Fully an hour to the N. of the town of Khirgeb, 1/, hr. from the
great temple, lies the extensive Christian Necropsits, resembling a city
with its regularly laid out streets, but now utterly devastated. At the
most only a few mortuary chapels are worth visiting. Some of the smaller
of these may have been the mausolea of particular families, but the larger
were probably sepulchral chapels in which religious services were held
in memory of the dead. to the N.W. of the necropolis is
Kagr Mugtafah Desk, an ancient Christian monastery, built entirely of brick
except the main portal, which is of hewn show To the N. of it is a
Hypogeum, 36 n. lung by 16 ft, broad, with three chambers on each side.



About 2 hrs. to the S. of Khirgeh is the little village of Gama », with
250 inhabitants. The houses are covered with branches of the orange-tree
and pomegranate-tree in place of roofs. The streets are so narrow as to
make it difficult for a laden camel to pass through them. About 1mm
from the village are the ruins of a tensile, dating from the time of the
Ptolemies (Energetes, Philopator, and athyrus), and dedicated to the
, Theban triad, Ammon-Ra, Math, and Khunuui The ruins, grettily situated
on a hill, are now known as Kerr Gullah or Kay Walt (rawings of it,
m Hominy, plates XVII-XIX, and Cailliaud, pl. azv)'. About 1% hr. further is the picturesque ruin of gaps l" sin endured, a temple, enclosed by
a rough brick wall, 23mm long and 88 N. broad. The entrance is on the
s. side. Within the wall is a kind of court of unburnt bricks, 50ft.
long and 17 ft. broad, at the approach to which are fragments of stone
with part of a Greek inscription. In this court is situated the temple,
13 ft. from the girdle-wall, and entered through a pylon, 2i it. broad, with
the winged sun-disc, facing the S. The doorway, which is vis n. wide,

is summed with representations of the emperor Antoninus making offerings






