Oates. unicorn. 35. Route. 353

to the rule's-headed Amman, Osiris, Isis, and Horns. According to the
Greek inscription here, the temple was dedicated to Amcnebis, as. the
Amman of Bib, god of Tthonemyris, is. To-Ithaam-ra'belonging to
Khnum', the name of the place. This inscription relates to a rebuilding
of the sanctuary (suede) and of the vestibule (npéraoch carried out in the
3rd yen mo AIL) of the emperor Antoninus Pius (3036881139) wander the
prefect daddies Helioderas, the military commandant Sophocles Macro and
the general (strategos) Pussies Gecptc. The celebrated rhetorician Aristides
came to Egypt in the prefecture oi Heliodorus, who was a famous
orator. The entrancesportal admits to the first hall, 26% it. long by lily, n.
broad, which is adjoined by the Sanctuary, is m by 7% it. A niche at the
back was probably intended for the statue of a god. To the W. of the
sanctuary is another chamber, 10 it. long by 2% bread. The total length
of the temple was 4.4 it.

The village of BM (3400 inhab.) is only 11/2 hr. to the S. of liner err
Zayan, and 7 hrs. to the S. of Bdldlg is the deserted village of Desserts. A
route leads vii Hade ageh, with a good spring and fine date-palms and damn
palms, to Beryl f inning 13 bra. from BOW) situated on a hill, with
numerous date-palms and surrounded with fields of grain (chiefly dare),
abounding in springs. EZ--Hots (100 inhab0, a be. farther is the most
southerly point in the oasis. The caravan-route leads hence in b, days at Darfar. About halfway between Berys and Make, but a little to E. of the road,
lies the temple of Dash oligarch. This temple also was once surrounded
with a high wall of unburned bricks, furnished on the inside with stairs
and galleries. Two propylene stand in front of the temple which ram
she 3:; the first and larger of these is 143/4 it. broad and 133/4 it. long.
On the architrare of the portal is a Greek inscription (published by
Gailliaud) of the 19th year of the emperor Trajan (116 All), in which
the inhabitants of Essie (claim the Kristine; comp. Rus, the above--menu
tinned hieroglyphic name of the oasis) record the building of this pylon,
under Marcus Entities Lupus, prefect of Egypt. On the left wall of the
same pylon is another but hardly decipherahle Greek inscription in which
the name tut mist recurs. Behind the propylon are some remains of columns,
so that e colonnaded gallery must be on used to have existed between
the first and second pylons, which are 1 ft, apart The Second Pylon,
only 13 ft. broad and 13312 ft. long, is united by a brick wall with the
girdle-wall. The poor sculptures upon it represent a king whose name
is not legible. About 38ft. farther ask is the temple proper, its first
portion being a kind of Vestibule, on the sides of which a Roman emperor
presents offerings to Serapis, and Home. The hieroglyphics, however,
are scarcely legible. This vestibule, with two column at the entrance,
is only 22N. broad and tWe fa. deep. Beyond it is a portico with four
columns, the capitals of which are much damaged. A door in the right
(W.) wall seems to have led to a staircase. At the back of the portico
"is a large door between two smaller ones the former leading into the
sanctuary which is divided into two chambers, the latter into corridors.
The method of lighting the sanctuary chamber » by windows at the top of
the warm, like those in the great temple of Karnak, and the vaulted roof
should be named, Over the doors ap ears the winged sun-disc, and on
each side are hieroglyphics. The l (back) wall of the temple is also
covered with reliefs, one representing the emperor Domitian, sacrificing
to Horus, son of Isis, and to Osiris.'

About 60 6115 from this temple are the ruins of another noteworthy
structure, wholly of brick, apparently also a temple. The entrance is
formed by a pointed Gothic arch, and the three following chambers have
doors of the same form, on which the winged sun-disc is still to be seen.
Huskies refers this building to the Romans. *



Bannansa's Upper Egypt






