The Westm
W. The Genie of





The ancient Egyptian name of this oasis was
24mm, is.'Plaee of the Two Swords', probably a mythological allusion.
a



W
The temple at Kan tsd-Dtuaal was called dot obi, he. Seat

l: m ®
of the moon, and also (Brunch) 5 He in as sales
I W

sateen, m.'Place of the going out of the King of the Gods'. Under the
Romans the oasis was named Oasis Minor and was garrisoned by the Ala
prime Quadorum. The present name stands ed--ddhhilsh means'inner oasis'.

Eduthhel lies 4-5 days' journey from Farht'rab { Cailliand, Roblfs),
5 long days" journey from Assidt (Edmonstone), and 8, or at most a, from
el-Khdrgeh. The lastmamed route is described below.

The oasis was visited in 1818 by Drovetti, in 1819 by Edmonstone,
and in 1873 by Rohlfs, with Zittel, Jordan, and Archerson, starting from
Farah-ah. The Meant amid the picturesque slide of the soucalled not
ciwflatllieed, on the last mentioned route is very impressive.

The oasis has at present about 173% inhabitants. It is very rich in
date-palms and olive-trees, and produces wheat, barley, me, dura, and
dukhn, though not sufficient for its own consumption. Large ueaciae
ftmnrtrtsa0, and fruit-trees, such as apricot and walnut trees, flourish.
The chief villages are sl-d'egr, detected, and Badskatu (see b ow).

The route from ethhrgeh to debcl leads NEW. to C 5 hrs) Edie
Amer, there turns due W. to (16112 hrs.) Tahitian, at the E. extremity of
the oasis, and proceeds vid (4 hrs.) Boiled, (41/4 hrs.) mm, and (31 shes.)
Hat. Finally it bends to the N. viii Reshideh and Budshela to d hrs)
et-hnsr, which we thus reach 18'/, hers, after leaving Tenidah.

In ills hr. after leaving el-Khergeh we pass the ruins of Kagr ertdrif,
in 7hrs. more those of Kagr sr-fours-h and in 51/4 hrs. more reach the
foot of the (label Amer. An ascent of 3 4 hr. brings us to the middle of
the mountain-slope, along which we ri e for 1 [ 2 he, to Kay'Am mar.
Here are the shattered remains of a small temple in the Greece-Egyptian
style, on which Wilkinson discovered the name Cumin According to
Cailliaud's measurements the temple is 713/2 ft. long and 31 ft. broad. It
consisted of a vestibule, and a larger room with a smaller one behind it,
with three doors leading to three other chambers, the central one being
the adytum (Plan in Cailliaud's Voyage is Ketch u, xm, it. Inside the
girdle-wall of the temple is a scanty spring with a somewhat unpleasant
taste. We continue our journey in a steep gorge, which lead; in 112 hr.
to the to of the (1765 it. above the tsea-level). Thence the
route leads to the W. along the height to (5 hrs.) elmGawdzt, beyond
which a rocky path (limestone), very difficult for camels man to (31 2 hrs)
Abu Tartar an isolated peak rising from the plateau. 6dr descent is hr.)
b as at (3 hrs.) interest ssh-Shé'shdni. We begin a second descent at
(21 2 hrs.)'Atebct session, which brin ty us in 10 min. to the valley of
Desert. From this point the oasis of anal stretches towards the W.,
interrupted twice by the desert, so as to form, strictly speaking, three
oases. The last of these. lying N. and s., is the most considerable. After
passing two springs, Min Segah and um Amanda, we reach the considerable
village ot Tandem, with 800 imam, largely employed in the production of
indigo. The manufacture is carried on in the open air under painiwleave
sheds. The dried leaves are placed in earthen pots with boiling water,
which is stirred with a stick until the dye-stud has been separated from
the leaves. The blue liquid is then poured into shallow holes in the
earth, and the water allowed to evaporate. To the left of the route, but
the spring of mm er2rit6rk, about 1 hr. beyond Tenidah, are the remains
of a square vaulted temple or a Roman fort, consisting of three main






