2 Route 1. MEDfiM. From Cairo

poled out into the middle of the channel. The sailors accompany the
hoisting of the lateen sail with a lusty chorus, and if one of the brisk
'Etesia' blows, which Herodotus mentions as driving boats up the Nile,
the long pointed craft dies quickly along, passing in rapid succession
the Khedive's palace and the barracks of Keel: en-Nil, Keer el-Ain,
the island of Rodah with its palaces (on the E. bank), and the chi-s
tones of Gezireh and Gizeh (W. bank). Old Cairo lies on the E.
bank, and beyond it rise the Mokattam Mia, with the citadel and
Stab }'Antar, a ruined Arab fort on the 8. end of one of their spurs;
on the W. is the group of pyramids at 6119) ). To the left (E. bank)
farther on, are the quarries and hamlets of Torah and Ma'sarah (see
Baedeker'e Lower Egypt, p. 403). Opposite, on the W. bank, rise the
pyramids of Abusir, and Dahshdr. Near the bank, to the
left, amidst a fine grove of palms, is a Ceptic consent, and adjacent
is a gunmiaetory, begun by Iema'il Pasha, but never finished.

The steamer remains for some hour)! at Bedrashén (rail. stat,
p. i), where asses are kept ready for a visit to Memphis, Sakkhrah,
eta. Baedeker's Lower Egypt, R. d), Opposite, on the right
bank of the Nile, lies Helwan (ibid, p. 404), frequented as a wateriug-pi' - On the bank at Kafr el-Ugtt (W. bank; rail. stat),
where the steamer lays to for the night, are some ancient constructions which may have belonged to the Count of Mensa. The unimportant pyramids of Link: lie to the right, while the singularly
shaped pyramid of Hidden (the so-celled'False Pyramid') becomes.
more and more prominent.

mm, on the W. bank, is the starting-point of the excursion
to the Pyramid and Maegabos of Madam (asses with poor saddles may
be procured at the village; 2 fr. and bakshish).

The Presets sun Msspasss or mecca, the oldest monuments in the
world, deserve a visit, which if the traveller approaches by the river, may
be accomplished from the village of Bristol: in about 8 hrs. (railway travellers may perform it in about the some time from the el-Waagah atabiorsg
comp. p. i). Crossing the railway, we proeeeirum don1ceruek in about
11 ].; hr. to the pyramid. which men close to the cultivated country on the
son of the desert, 1% H. to the N. to the N. of the village of Harlem. This appears
to be the oldest of the local names handed down to us, as it is met with
on the mastabas of the early period of Snefru.

The Pyramid of Iédhm is so different from all the other structure: of
the kind that it is called by the Arabs'El-Haram el-dreaded?", or'the false
persons". From a large heap of rubbish which covers its base, the
smooth and steep upper part of the structure rhea in three different
stages at an angle of 74° 10', and is still preserved to a height of 122 rt
The first section is 60 m, and the second 201/2 ft., while the third, now
almost entirely destroyed, was once 32 ft. in height. The outs: walls BOTH
Mst of admirably jointed and polished blocks of Mokattam stone. The
holes in one of the surfaces were made by Lepsius and Erbkam when
they examined the pyramid, the construction of which afforded them an
admirable clue to the principle upon which the others were built (Vol. L,
p. 350). The Pyramid of Hidden was never completed; the heap of debris
at its hue consist: or the material which once filled the angles of the
different sections, so as to give the pyramid a smooth surface. The pyramid was pillaged as early as in the time of the filth Dynasty. It w »
waned in 1881 by Keepers), who found along corridor and a chamber
without sarcophagus. Perhaps in this pyramid Seafrm, thefirst of the





