Gases. DHRKHEL. 35. Route. 355

chambers and two side-rooms. Farther on we pass the little village of
With Bumdi, with ytttktrtsets watered by two brooks, then Kagr ua
Amir, with an ancient edifice, perhaps a temple, and in 514 hr. reach
Salad, with over 800 mam the largest village but one in the oasis.
With the immediately adjoining villages (mum it counts sow inhabitants.
To the N. of the town. which contains two mosques, are several large
tombs of shdkhs. At the entrance to the town (from the E.) is a vault
containing some water-vessels, which are kept always full for the use of
travellers, by the beneflcence of a Shéhh Mustafdh.

Beyond lead the first division of the oasis ends, and we cross a
desert strip (2% ma, inappropriately named Boer betas radii (comp. p. { id-7).
After 1/2 he's ride in the second part of the oasis, we reach dose sin
hotshot, a large building surrounded by a vaulted gallery the remains of a
temple. About 3/. hr. farther is a ruined town, eeiieti "neat eL-Khardb
or the'destroyed Sment" containing a sandstone structure, known as
stir-Der (the monastery), 1% paces long by 9 bread, with two chambers in
a very ruinous condition. Beside it is a small building. The modern
village of desist lies 3/4 hr. farther; it is surrounded by a high wall and
most of the houses have two stories. To the S. of our road He: Mu'gm'ah
CW) the village of Hut, the residence of Hasan Efendi
(see below), on an eminence among date-palms, A ruined temple is found here
also. In the neighbouring hill: is an smurmina Hanna we proceed to the
KW. to el-Ha'ndau, and then cross the last strip of desert to (21/1 bu)
detainee, a small place with houses of three stories. Kalamiin is the
residence of the Kaimmahdm or governor of the oasis. This village is
mentioned by Et-Bekri; its name perhaps signifies'Oastle of Ammon".
The Shnrbagi who are settled here claim to have ruled the oasis since
the days of the sultan Selim (1517), though they were first placed here
only about 100 years ago by the mamelnke government of that time as
a guard against the incursions of the predatory nomads (the 31mm
About 2 bet, to the ICE. to the NE. of Ealamdn is Rashidah, a flourishing village with
numerous palm-trees and said to have 1000 inhabitants. A route leads
direct N. from Kalamdn via the village of 31mm », surrounded by gardens.
to student. About 1 he, farther is Budshttla, with 2400 inhab. and
palm-trees. which yield an annual harvest of some camel~loads There
are also rich olive-plantations. The hospitable shékh is one of the richest
landowners in the oasis. 31-15mm also called Medias: at { fasr ed-dehel,
the capital of the oasis. lies 2 hrs. to the N... in lat. 25° 42"N. and long.
29° E. of Greenwich. Its chief spring is 360%. above the sea-level. The
town contains at least 2000 inhab., or including the adjacent settlements
(match), 6000. Its outward appearance is handsome, and it contains
several large and line houses. nearly all of them two--storied, besides four
mosques and a Zawipeh or seminary of the Sendai (p. i In the midst
of the town is a thermal spring ("Ate names; 96 FehrJ, strongly impregnated with iron and sulphur, and several others are to be found in
the neighbourhood. Hosea Efsadi, new in am (see above), a native of the
Nile valley and formerly a servant of Lsfesrc, the French mining'engineer,
has bored about 50 new wells in the oasis within the last 30 years. The
inhabitants employ themselves in a great variety of industries, their
employments being hereditary. In their mild and amiable disposition
they are a complete contrast to the natives of Fan'ifrah.

Archaeologists find an object of interest in the temple known as
"Dér tsl-med, do. monastery of the stones, lying about 2 hrs. to me
SAW. of East. It is almost entirely covered with sand and fallen blocks,
and had to be cleared by Bah"; It lies from E. to W., and is M ft.
long by 231/2 it. broad, excluding the external vestibule. This vestibule,
which is completely covered with stones, had originally 8 columns. of
which only one is now standing. The only relic of the entrance to the
temple is the portal with the winged tsun-dish beneath which the emperor
Titus is represented worshipping the reefs-headed Amman-Ra, Math, and
Khulna 0n the right, and the same with the ibisnheadcd Thoth on the
left. The first hall, 24 R. long by hi it. broad, buggy: pump, ami

23








