DKKHEYL.



contains representations of the rem'swheaded Ammon, Isis, and Anubis.
The second room is entered by a narrow door, on which are sacrificial
scenes .before the ram's--heed Ammon and other deities. The name of
the worshipping king is unfortunately not added and only the word mares
is legible in the second certsnche. Above is the winged sen-disc. This
room is only half as long as the preceding and is destitute of all ornament
except on the central door leading to the Sanctuary. Remelé's measurements of the latter give the breadth at 71/2 ft., the depth at 11 ft., and
the height at 10 ft. The photographs taken by him indicate that the
temple was built by Were co, T-sian, and Titus. It was dedicated to
Amen-Ra, who is frequently represented with the ram'e-heed and usually
accompanied by Moth. Once he is styled Lord of Heb, but his usual

m W
designation is'Dweller in Act ab', 5.8. the seat of the
tCh

moon. Act eh appears to he the name of the site of the temple, for the
some designation is here used for She, son of Ra, and for other gods. Tim Myoviso1irntioned dam to the sanctuary had scenes of worship on
both its Wings, and e six-dine dedication-inscription. On passing through
it into the cells, we see on the left, above, Vespaaian offering to AmmonIts, Moth, end Khnnsn; beneath, on the left, the same emperor offering
to the rem's-headed Ammon-Re with his family, and on the right, to Khan:
and Osiris Unnot'cr. In the bottom rows on the eide-wells are depicted
Nile-gods, bringing offerings. ~------( in the right well of the cells Vespasien
makes offerings to then r & m'kheadad Arruaomdts, Moth, and Khnnsn, then
to She, son of Ra, and to Tefnut, and finally to She, Osiris, and Isis.
The ceiling was occupied by a rude astronomical representation, but
most of the blocks have fallen. The hockavvsll of the cells is divided
in halves, each containing 3 fields. In all 6 field, there appear: an
emperor sacrificing to the gods, among whom the ram'a-headed Ammon is
twice represented. The emperor's name seem to be Nero (or more probably Nerve) Kisses Germsnicns .--- The platform of the temple commands an excellent *Vietv' towards the long Table Mountain mentioned by
Edmonstone. About 120 it. in front of the forevconrt of the temple is a
stone gateway, with various representations new barely visible The
entire temple is surrounded by a brick wall.







