to Away. Route. 3



dth bye, was buried, as in the neighbouring tombs persona related to him
are interred.

The Haggai )" of mam, which were opened by Mariette, lie to the
hi. of the pyramid. These were the tombs of the relation: of Snafu)
(m Dyna, and in many respects resemble the mausolea of Selglgdrah which
bear the same name. The fapades of the most important of them are
partly uncovered. The street of tombs, which is now accessible, presents the appearance of chill-side covered with masonry, manned with
stucco, and provided with ante-chambers. The mouth of each tomb is
towards the E.; the leaning external walls are generally of Nile bricks,
richly embellished with the linear patterns which afterwards formed the
favourite decoration of the sides of the sarcophagi (which were imitations of the tomtr-ftrpBdeO. The vestibule is in most cases compares
tirely large, but it does not appear to hm
hm ered the efforts of the artists as much as it did at a later age. The
admirably preserved colours are also less conventional than those seen in
later monuments.

The first open tomb which we reach from the 8., was that of Prince

a
(Erpa Ha) chcm-dt, who lived in the reign of King m... (There

C)
were 3 kings of this name, in the let, 3rd, and 6th Dfiut, s. On the left
wall of the corridor leading to the tomb~chamber, we see the deceased
in a sitting posture, and on the right wall he is represented standing,
with his wife behind him. Adjacent are men and women presenting
od'erings, as in the mastabas of Ti and Ptahhotep. The flesh-tint of the men
is red, and that of the women pale yellow, and this circumstance, especially in a monument of this early period, is important as tending to
prove the Asiatic origin of the Egyptian nobles. The mum » of the
persona represented are of the Caucasian, and not of the Ethiopian
type. Among the villages belonging to Reformat, which offered gifts,

Q is.'Mstun of the cattle'. listen is the oldest form of

the name hidddm. From the neck of the on, which represents the victim,
flows a black stream of blood. On the right side we find among others
a district named that'of the white sow", which proves that pigs were reared
in Egypt as early as the time of Snefru. The pig in this group is very

true to nature In the name of the district Hat co dot,

or'place of the ploughing', the most ancient form of the plough is used
as a determinative symbol. The advanced condition of industrial pursuits, showing that the Egyptians already practised the art in which,
according to Pliny, they afterwards excelled, is proved by the character
of the dress worn by the women represented on the right side of the
first passage, consisting of black and white cotton stuff, with pleasing
patterns on the borders. He tells us that they were not in the habit of
painting the materials for their dress, but of dipping them in certain
fluids They were coloured with boiling dyes, and came out impressed
with a pattern. Although the boilers contained one colour only, it is
said to have imparted several different tints to the studs dyed in them.
- In order to impart a durable colour to the larger figures represented
here, an entirely unique process was employed. The outlines were engraved on the mug while the surfaces enclosed by them were divided
into deeply incised squares, which were filled with stucco of different
colours, the flesh-tint of the men being red, that of the women yellow,
and the colour of the robes being white, em

true to nature










