4 llama l. ATFIH. From Cairn

A little farther to the N. is the tomb of AWL the wife of Nefermdt.
On the architraye over the doorway we see the husband of the deceased
engaged in snaring birds, while a servant presents the spoil to the mistress of the house, whose complexion is of a brilliant yellow. On the
outside wall, to the left, we observe the cattle of the deceased browsing
on reeds. On the right stands Refer-mat, who, as the inscription informs
no,'caused this monument to be erected to his gods in indestructible
characters'. Among the domestic animals are several name of very
bright colours. We also notice a gazelle held by the home by t number,
who is cutting off its head. Offerings of wine were also made at this
early period. In the passage leading to the 3mm; is a group of labourers busily at work. The hunting-scenes are curious, and, notwithstanding
their simplicity, remarkably tree to nature. Among them is a greyhound
seizing a gazelle by the leg, and another cmying n lnng-eurdd harm

A few paces to the RE. is another mastaba built of well-hewn blocks
of limestone. The hieroglyphics and low reliefs, resembling those in
the tomb of Ti at Sahhdrah, are admirably executed. The deceased inn
terred here was named Kim", and his wife More. Traversing the vestibule and a narrow passage, we reach a tomb-chapel with a sacrificial
table, in the passage, on the right, is a handsome male figure with a
lease, and on the left are stone-masons, engaged in making sarcophagi.
On the left, in the innermost niche of this tomb, we perceive the deceased, and on the right, his wife. We next some to a ruined mastaba,
and to another tomb, half excavated, which was constructed for Rotten
tap, a son of sham, one of the highest civil and military dignitaries of
the kingdom, and his wife chm, a mum art the royal family. The
amass of this married couple, who died young, or at least are so reprew
seated, which are new among the principal treasures of the museum of
Giseh, were found here. Farther to the W. are several other tombs, now
covered up.

On the right bank, Opposite Rihhah and about 11/2 M. from the
river, lies the hamlet of Am, with some mounds of earth and
debris representing the ancient Aphroditopolis, the territory of which,
according to Stubs, adjoined that of Acanthus CDMuhiir), while its
capital lay on the Arabian bank of the Nile. A town of Aphrodite
must also be one of Rather, the Egyptian goddess of love, to whom
the white cow, which Stratus says was worshipped here, was sacred;
it was the capital of Matched, the 22nd some of Upper Egypt. Its

hieroglyphic name was Tap aha, head of the cow.

In the Christian period (an, id) dphroditopolis gained mm celebrity trom 8t, Anthony, who fined his hermit e in the mountain: to
the E. of the town, beside a well and a group 0 palm. So many pilgrims of every class, age, and sex sought out the holy man, that a regular
posting route, with relay. of camels, was laid out across the desert. St. Am
thany, however, fled from his admirers and buried himself deeper in the
mountain. But while be than shook "his earthly visitants, he could
not so easily escape those extraordinary tempters from spirit--land, u whisk
Cum lug taught as to smile, though to St. Anthony himself, as well as
to St. Hilarion and other similarly persecuted anchorites, the contest was
one of bitter cement. The Coptic convent of lidr Antonina (p. 5), a few
leagues higher up, on the E. side of the Nile, still sends so plies to the
consent of St. Anthony, situated in the heart of the Arabian eaert f" 6).

After passing a few small islands, we now reach (W. bank ela
Wastah (pp. 1 and 36; post-office and Arab telegraph at the rail.
shah, 1/4 M. from the Nib), where passengers bound for the Faydm
leave the dhahabiyeb and betahe themselves to the train (see R. 2).
El-Wastah is pleasantly situated in a grove of palms and is ear
rounded with fields of clever.





