tenancy. cements. 1. Route. 5

Visitors to the Faydm may regain 1sristats on the following day at
10.15 am. or at 4.16 p.m., by leaving Medinet tsl-mlm at 9 can. 02'
2.58 p.111. An extra day allows a visit to the Labyrinth and the Pyramid
of sthrah (p. 39). In this case the dhahabiyeh should not be sent on in advance, but should be ordered to await the traveller's return .--The pyramid. and. tombs of Maidens may also he visited from el-Wastah (see p. 2).

A small canal, beginning neat the village of Zdwiyeh (W. bank),
runs out of the Nile into the Balir Yasuf o, 28).

Further up in the latitude of Alpnsts el-Medineh and Beniguiif, there
seems to have been another deep channel connecting the river with the
Bohr Ydsuf. These four channels enclosed an inland which has been idennets with the Heroslcopcliton Nome, unanimously described by Greek authorities as an island. Strabo, who visited it on his way to the Faydm,
after leaving the name of Aphroditopolis, call: it'a large island", and mu
lates that in the city of Heracleopolis the ichneumon was worshipped,
the deadliest fee of the crocodile, held sacred in the neighbouring some
of Arsinoe'; for, he: ens us it crawls down the throat of the sleeping
monster and devours its entrails. The large mounds of debris at Alma: :1.
Medium, the Umm el-Etmdm ('mother of rubbish-heaps') of the Arabs, have
been identified. with Heracleopolis; they lie 11 hi. to the W. (inland) of
Beniguef. The old name of the town was Khinensn, from which Abode is
derived through the Coptic Hues. The ram~horned god Hanna ], the
prince of terrors, was also worshipped here. A few columns still stand,
here, and other monuments may be buried under the debris. Systematic
excavation: are to he undertaken. At present Abode need scarcely be
visited except by those who approach the Faydm from Bcuisudf.

On the W. bank the mountains recede a little from the Nile,
but on the E. bank their steep and lofty spurs frequently extend
down to the bank in rising picturesque forum None of the Nile-villages before Benisuéf need be mentioned. On the E. bank stands
the Septic content of Mdr Antonina (see p. 4). About 2M. inland
(right) from Zé'tdn (W. bank) lies the hamlet of Bitch (rail. stat,
p. l), which is inhabited by Gupta and thus has some interest for
those who wish to study these direct descendants of the ancient
Egyptians in a community of some sire,

Benign", on the W. bank, the first place in Upper Egypt (rail.
etch, p. i; stain, 3/4 M, from the Nile), is a post and telegraph office and is the capital of a province of the
same name, which contains 169 villages and about 220,000 inhabim
tents. To the left of the rail. station is the Mudiriyeh, or residence
of the mudir or governor. The houses or rather huts of this provincial capital are, however, constructed merely of Nile mud. The linen: manufacture for which this place was celebrated in the middle ages
has greatly declined, but there are several sugar-pursuits and a
small bazaar. To the left of the railway is a fine grove of palms,

A road which was much frequented before the completion of the railway, leads from Benisuéf into the Fayam (p. M), and travellers with a
tent and plenty of time might still hire camels, asses, or horses here and
proceed to Medias: el-Fayam rid sZ--Lohdu ('gate of the msrlra0, where the
legr Yaw; sum: the Faydm, and Handrail. By using the railway tur um
s', h') re,'r'y and giving up Birket er0furi1n, this excursion can be made

Another road, traversing the dei Based, which opens near the village of Based, on the E. bank of the me, apposite Benign u h








