6 Beam L MAGHAGHAH. Fran mm

the desert to the Convent: of M, Anthony and Paul, a few { wuss
from the Red Sea. The brotherhood of St. Anthony's Convent emu Set
um highest rank among the religious societies of the Mouophysite oufessiou; and the Patriarch, or head of the Coptic community, must be
selected from their number. A visit to the convene. however, does not
compensate for the fatigue and trouble it involves.

As far as Minyeh the space between the E. bank and the hills
remains narrow, the limestone rocks frequently abutting on the river
in unbroken walls or rounded binds. Few villages are seen on this
bank, but the fertile alluvial tract on the W. side, 10-12 M. in width,
is thickly populated and carefully cultivated, exhibiting in profusion
all the cereals that grow on the Nile, date-palms, and sugar-scene.
The huge sugar plantations present a busy scene in November, when
the sweet juice is collected from the canes and conveyed to the
factories, which are a monopoly of the Khedive and follow each other
in rapid succession. These factories are connected by the railway,
and short branchwlines, used in harvest--time only, run from them
to the plantations lying farther to the W. Their lofty chimneys
impart a very modern-industrial appearance to the ancient land of
the Pharaohs. Large barges full of augu-canee and others with
fellahin going to work in the factories are met on the river. Most
of the higher officials in the factories are Europeans. The juice is
expressed from the came and then refined by being boiled twice in
closed vessels. In an average year about 25,000 tone of sugar are
produced in Egypt; in 1889 the value of the sugar exported
amounted to 509,0002..

The boat passes two large islands. On the W. bank lie Botanical:
and. Bitch (rail. stat, p. i), with large sugarnfaetories. The channel new contracts, and numerous islets are passed. chim (rail. stat,
p. l), on the W. bank, is 11/2 M. from the river. Near the village
of el-Hibeh, on the E. bank, about t M. farther up, are the ruins of
the town of Kheh or Khaki, which belonged to the some of Aphrodite (p. F). These include well-preserved riparian structures of the
time of the Pharaohs and some massive walls made of bricks,
hearing two different stamps. One of these bears the name of the
local goddess,'lsis of Kheb', and the praenomen of Tutmes m. (18th
Dye); the other, discovered by H. Brugsch in 1853, reads'The
high-priest of Ammon, Pishem the just, governor of the towns of
Urkhenu and. Item-libel )".

On the E. bank rises the Gcbcl tilhtklt Embdrak. The steamer
steps at Heghdgheh, a pleasant place on the W. bank, with meaning,
palms, and large sugar-works (post and telegraph office at the rail.
stut., p. I). The Nile-channel is very wide here (several islands,
farther on both banks are flat. At Abu Girgeh (rail. stat, p.),
with sugarmfactories, the railway runs close to the river.

About 12 hi. to the E. of Aha Girgeh, on the Baler Yasuf, in the name
of Sap, lies the town of Behoesah, on the me of the ancient Gages-hymns:

(0.3mm; profane name Parasol, Coptic Emma, Greek Henson), new
represented only by a few desolate heaps of debris. The 311 Ox9rribsr










