to Amap. (mam ET-TER. I. Route. 7

shes, a species of Mormyrns (Arab. Misdeh), was held in such high honour
here, that the inhabitants refused to eat any fish caught by a hunk lost
the hook might previously have injured an Oxyrrhynchus. In the neighbouring town of Cynopolis (see below) the dog was held in equal honour,
and Plntareh relates how a'very pretty quarrel", the settlement of which
required the intervention of the Romans, arose between the two towns,
owing to the facts that the citizens of each had killed and dined on the
sacred animals of the other. Juvenal gives an account of a similar strife
between Ombos and Tampa Cp, am, 0n the introduction of Christianity
Oxyrrhynchus became so "full of convents that monkish songs were heard
in every quarter". Convent jostles convent all round, forming as it were a
second town of monks. In the tith cent. the diocese of Oxyrrhynchus is
said to have contained 10,000 monks and 123131311113. In the town itself
were 12 churches. Under the Arabs it is known only as Bahama! » In the
Mameluke period it was still of some importance, but it has since steadily
declined. From Behnesah the desert-route leads to the'small ossip OI
Bamyeh, also known as the Oasis of Bchnsseh (comp. p. 3%).

About 4 M. above Ahu Girgeh, close to the E. bank of the Nile,
are the insignificant remains of Shhkh elaFadhl, near which is
Homethoh. Father Sicard's discovery of a large number of dogmummies here proves that we are standing on the site of the necropolis of Cynopotis (Knvtbv ethic), the'city of the dogs', which, as the
above story indicates, must have adjoined Oxyrrhynchus. Sasha's
words are:'Next come the Cyncpolitan some and Cvnopolis, where
Anubis is worshipped and dogs are hem sacred and fed with consecrated moat'. Several trough-rite hollow; and clam have been
found here, some of which, in the rocks, are of considerable size;
but no inscriptions have been discovered. Cynopolis itself, according to Ptolemy, lay on an island in the Nile, but no traces of it are
new visible. Opposite, 11/4 M. from the W. bank, lies the village

Kolosaneh (rail. sum p. o, on the t bank, has a large palmgrove. Opposite (E. bank) lies Smartest. To the N. and S. quarries are worked in the limestone rock. - Among the rocks here is
a small temple (not very easily found), hearing the names of Seti H.
and of Morenptah Hotepher~ms, - supposed to be the Pharaoh of
the Exodus (19th Dye.) The kings are odering sacrifices to the
triad of Sebek, Humor, and Horns, and representations of Sebek
(with the head of a crocodile), Rather, and Ramses HI. may be
made out on the external wall of the grotto, Going the spectator.
The inscriptions are very indistinct but are couched in the usual
form of thanksgiving to the gods for the blessing of a long reign.

On the W. bank lies Samalldt, with a handsome railway-station
(p. o, sugar-factories, palms, and fields of clever. A little farther
mike th, on the E. bank, rise the steep rocky sides of the Gebel
st-Tie ['bird-mountain'), with an extensive flat top bearing the
Coptic convent of ssl-Bulk.' Those who wish to visit the mountain should disembark just before reaching it and ascend on the N.



+ New generally called Dtr er-dhurah, from a mindless (bnkrahl "sad

in drawing water. But the name is probably derived from the old legend
"m Bum bird.





