8 Route 1. "win: nurse. ream Cairo

side. The excursion, which has no great interest except for the fine
view of the Nile valley, takes 11/232111'5. Other oonvents of a similar
kind (see, on, p. M) can be reached more easily. The convent,
also named Dir Stitch Morgans cl-lddhrah or convent of Lady Mary
the Virgin, consists of a group of miserable huts, occupied not only
by the monks but by hymen with their wives and children, and
looks like a fortified village. Most of the monks employ themselves
in making shoes. The underground chapel in which service is hold
is uninteresting The institution is very old, .and curious tales are
told of it by Makrisi, Kaswini, Suyuti, and other Ambit writers.

"This convent', says Mahrizi,'is ancient, overlooks the Nile, and is
reached by a staircase hewn in the hill; it lies opposite Sanilut'. Then,
following eLShaboehti he narrates how it is visited by pilgrims from all
quarters and lies on t e'hill of the caverns".'At one point of the hill',
he continues,'is a narrow fissure, and on the saint", day of the convent
all the bukinhirdst in the neighbourhood come flying to this fissure,
flocking together in a huge crowd and making a tremendous din. One
after the other in constant succession thrusts its head into the cleft, and
utters a scream, until one comes whose head sticks fast and correct be
withdrawn. The victim then bani its wings against the rocks until it
dies, after which all the other birds depart and leave the rock in solitude
and silence.'This', adds the writer,'is new a thing of the past". Similar
legends are found in antiquity. The Pharaohs, on ascending the throne,
let birds loose to bear the tidings to the four quarters of the globe. Herodotus and Elisa tell of feathered ambassadors disgatched in this way from
Egypt, and to this category apparently belongs t e myth of the birds of
mum", which on certain days visited the grave of the Son of the Dawn,
who fell before Troy, cleanse it with their beaks and besprinkled it with
water by dipping their feathers in the stream. hough this legend may
have originated in Asia it was afterwards, like Memnon himself (p. 154),
transplanted to the Nile.'

The Wadi stiller (E. bank) leads from the Grebe ] et-ptr to the s. E.
About 1% K. to the S. of its mouth is the village of, Tchoeh spherical;
('Tehneh of the mill'). Before reaching it we pass the ancient Hilde ct »
ideas, or'walls of the old woman", probably erected as a barrier to the
desertwhurrieanes. At CEehneh, which is about was from the Nile, are two
groups of combs that to the N. belonging to the men period at which web
tombs were constructed on the Nile, while that to the 3. belongs to the
early epoch of the ancient kingdom. The necropolis to which these tombs
belonged is supposed to be that of the town of Astoria, mentioned by Ptolemy alone and belonging to the some of Cynopolia. Mounds mark the
site of the ancient town. Beyond rise the rocks, containing tombs of the
time of the Ptolemies and several short Greek inscriptions. One sepalchral chapel, containing some singular representations of a late date, is
interesting. The colours on the ceiling have faded, but the paintings on
the walls are still distinguishable. In front, on the left wall, Bland! the
deceased, in Roman costume; opposite, on the right wall, he appears again,
offering a sacrifice, as a sign that though in the anan service or at least
of Roman tastes be yet reverse the gods of his ancestors The representations of these deities occur on all four walls of the chamber and are
so numerous that they must include the local divinities, not only of shorts,
but also of all the other places in the name, of which the deceased, whose
name is not decipherable, may have been nomarch. The only inscriptions
extent are on the inner side of the door. Higher up on the mek-wall, are
, two horses in the Roma mm held by men. Between the two were other
sculptures, the subjects of which are no longer recognisable. The first


i" This bird is described by 1hm.ut a black and white

with a black
neck, ringed near the head, black wing-feathers, am! t I hm swim












