to' Assiay. Route. 9



mentioned figures have been supposed to be Castor and Pollux, or two
Roman emperors, but they rather resemble horses brought no tribute, like
the groups in the pediment of the Stole of PiankhL Funher to the S.
is a colossal image, carved out of the men, of Ramses Ill. sacrificing to
the god Sebek. The inscriptions in the very ancient group of lamb! m
the S. are in such bad preservation that their date can only be guessed
at from their general style.

2522; 521'yeht (Minyctwibnuh'hosih; rail. stat, p. l), on the W. bank,
a well-built and handsome town with 15,900 inhab., is the seat of
the mudir of a district containing 281 villages and 315,000 inhabitants. There is a telegraph-office at the railway-station, and adjacent is the postmofhce, the director of which speaks Italian. At the
hospital is a physician who has studied in Europe. The town posm _
season two hotels and a large and curiously painted Arab cafe, in
which ghawdzi sing in the evening. Parts of the street running
along the river are planted with trees, and in the stream many
steamers and dhahabiyohs lie at anchor. The bazaars and the
Greek bahhals' (small dealers) possess large stocks of goods. In the
Bazaar street is an Austrian watchmaker and clothier, and among
the houses on the river is an Italian tailor. The palace of the mudir
is a plain and lightly-built structure. The large sugar-factory is
the oldest in Egypt, and a visit to it during the sugar-harvest is of
great interest; most of the officials are French and very obliging,
Market-day in Minyeh presents a very gay and characteristic picture
of Oriental life. There are no public buildings or monuments of
any interest, but the houses of the richer merchant, in spite of their
plain exterior, are often fitted up with great comfort. A glance
into one of their courts will show what a rich and varied life exists
in the interior of houses which from the outside look like miserable huts.

It is uncertain what place of the Pharaohs" time Minyeh represents;
but the assertion of Leo Africanus that it was founded by the Arabs may
well.be doubted. Among the facts which render it improbable are the
old masonry on the river (towards the 8.), the ancient architectural frogw
merits immured in one of the mosques, h Comic inscription, and the very
name of the town, which is derived, not from the Arabic, but from the
old-Egyptian dialect. Its Coptic name is noon" (Home) and this, as
Brugsch has demonstrated, is derived from me oWEgyptiats Afentet. This
name, however (in full Meow: Keefe,'nurse of Cheops"), belonged to a
place which lay nearly opposite to the present Minyeh, on a site still
marked by a few remains. At a later date Mona-t was probably transferred, under the name ot'Minyeh, from the right bank of the Nile to the
left, where, presumably, some of the inhabitants had previously settled.
To this day the inhabitants of Minyeh maintain a close connection with
the E. bank of the Nile, conveying their dead foe burial 10 2am », surnamed el-Métin (he.'of the dead'), 5 hi. to the S.

Exoensros ro Banrnasan, 15 M. (see p. 12). After making enquiries
as to the security of the route, the traveller hires an ass, ferries to the
right bank of the Nile, and ascends the river via de'yet el-Né'ttts (p. 10). Instead of returning to Minyeh, he should
continue to follow the right bank of the Nile to the (10% AL) R's-5M 0f
distinct, now Shah Ubtideh ip, 19) and cross the river thence to Rods }:
(p. 18). This is a long but interesting day's journev nuusommrrdaties
a R6tists may be obtained on application at the railway-tot lion (it.





