10 Route 1.



From Cairo

Opposite Minyeh, on the E. bank, lies Kdm cleofarch, where
some ancient tombs, perhaps belonging to the 12th or 13th Dynasty, have lately'bcen discovered.

Zhwiyot eln-Hétin and Kern sl-Ahmar ('the red rubbish-mound'),
situated on the E. bank, 5-6 M. above Minyeh, may be visited together. We first reach the village of Zdwiysh, user which are the
estate and beautiful garden of the venerable Abu Sultan Pasha.
Between the village and Kihn el-Ahmar, about 1/2 M, M. from the
latter, lies the fine cemetery of the citizens of Minyeh (p. 9), with
its numerous domed tombs and chapels. Thrice yearly, in the
months of Regeb, Shawwdl, and Dhilhiggehi, at the time of full
moon, funeral festivals, lasting several days, are celebrated here.
Among the ceremonies observed are the offering of dates to the
dead, which recalls the funereal offerings of the ancient Egyptians,
and the presentation of palm-branches, recalling the Oriental symbolism of early Christianity, still familiar in our churches. A few
minutes' walk towards the S. brings us to the red mound of pottery
and rubbish known as Kdm elnAZtmai', which runs parallel with the
Nile. Climbing over this we reach the burial-avenue of the primeval
monarchy, which are situated among the Arabian hills, with their
gates towards the river.

The tombs are unfortunately in bad preservation, and some of them
have been destroyed by violence, the stones being removed for use in building. It is uncertain of what town this was the necropolis, bat "undoubtedly belonged to the 16th home of Upper Egypt, named Mal: or Mallet
(gazelle), in which the gamma was held sacred. In this name also lay the
towns of Heben and Fair", the chief deity of which was represented as
a sparrow-hawk standing on a gazelle, accompanied by Esther, Horns,
and Khnum. Some of the tombs are still open to visitors. The lower
case are small and dilapidated, including one that was richly adorned
with statues. Similar figures, horse in the living rock, are still distinguishable on the facade and in the rear of the chapel. Farther up is the tomb
of Nefersekbrc, royal secretary and superintendent of the storehouses of
Upper and Lower Egypt, which still contains some good sculptures. This
tomb, in the rear of which are three niches, appears to have been More
ltructed under the 18th Dynasty. Among its contents are sacrificial lists
and scenes like those in the vaults of'Abd el-Kumah: Gsiris under a sanopy; corpse crossing the Nile, accompanied by female mourners; the
deceased in the midst of his family. The tomb of Entrees, a relative of
the Pharaohs, situated farther to the S. and lower down, is of earlier origin
and in all probability belongs to the ancient kingdom. The sonnet: of
agriculture and navigation in this tomb, am now
scarcely visible. From the upper tombs we obtain a splendidly varied
view of the Nile, its fertile valley and the town of Minyeh, with the red
mounds of debris in the foreground, while to the N. stretches the sandy
desert, from which the domed tombs ofrMwiy6tnV11ttia me like a group
of team. On the mound of Ram el-Ahmar lies a colossal figure, 70 ft.
long, without an inscription.

Benihasan and Specs Artemidos, 15 M. from Minyeh and. 162 M.
from Cairo, an important steamboatustation.



e These months cannot be reproduced by the names of our month,
as they pass through all the sour yen. Thus a festival
iwhich is celebrated this year in summer will take place "me er.








