to mm. SPEOS ARTEMIDOS. 1. Route. H

The'three weeks' steamer huts hem 34 Rum, while the'four weeks"
steamer remains overnight and leaves the entire forenoon for a visit to
Specs Artemidos and Benihasan. The excursion begins at Specs Artemidos, Which lieu! to the B. (1/2 hr. on donkey-baek). whence we proceed
towards the N. to (1/2 hr.) the foot of the tombs of Benihasan. We then
walk to (10 min) the S. graves and descend to Nos. 2 (Khnum-hotep) and
i (AmeurAmemsmha) of the N. tombs, where the new are in waiting to
take us back to the steamer We be). Travellers ascending the river in
a dhahabiyeh should land at Benihasan, ride to Specs Artemidos, and send
the dhahabiyeh on to meet them near the village of Sentences cinemas.
Those descending the stream save a little time by landing at a point
somewhat nearer the tombs of Benihasan, almost oppuaite Benihaasn clEadim fp, 12).

Spoon Artemidos ('grotto of Artemis'), known to the Arabs as
Stem'Antur ('stable of Antar'; comp. p. 33), is reached from the
steamboat-landing, where 53393 are in waiting, in 1/2 hr. The route
crosses fields and sand, finally ascending considerably. On the
way carefully rolled eat-mummies are shared for sale, which
have retained the unmistakeable odour of eats for thousands of

years. The cat was sacred to the goddess Pub:, whom

the Greeks identified with Artemis. The Temple of this goddess,
harm in the rock, consists of a vestibule and of an inner chamber
connected with the vestibule by a corridor. Above the door of the
vestibule is a long inscription of the time of the 18th Dynasty,
which celebrates the goddess Pasht and also speaks, under the name
of Ame, of the Hyksos in Avaris who from ignorance of the god
Re destroyed the ancient temples.
The temple itself was founded by Tutmes m. and renewed by
Seti I. Of the 8 pillars which supported the vestibule all have
been destroyed except two in the front row, which bear inscriptions
and royal cartouches on their W. and E. sides only. On the W.
side of the recumbent pillar to the right Champollion saw the

name of Tutmes Hi. £35 5., All the other cartouches are
those of Seti L, who is described as the favourite of the goddess
Fame, the mistress of \ W Motcnne or the dweller in the

mountain q an AM. On the rear-wall of the vestibule
as

are some interesting representations. To the left is Pasht in the
guise of a mighty sorceress, stretching out her left hand to king
Seti L, behind whom, sitting in an attitude of benediction, is
the god Ammon-Ra. To the extreme left is the small figure of the
god Thoth, lord of Hermopolis. Appropriate inscriptions are
also furnished. To the right, in three rows, are the deities of Specs
Artemidos (12 figures), beginning with Manta and item, in front
of whom is Thoth, who conveys to the local gods the command of
Amman-Ra that Soil 1. shall be raised to the throne rHoru "













