12 Route l, BENIHASAN.' From Cairo

the doorway to the next chamber are a long inscription and a representation of the king offering a cynocephalus. In the rear-well
is a niche (naos) with the cartouche of Seti I.

To the W. of the Space Artemidos is a
second grotto (perhaps merely a cat's tomb),
on the outside of which are the interesting
cartouches of Alexander 11., son of Roxana,
and six scenes representing the king in the
company of the gods.

The dragomans new hurry on to (1/? hr.)
Benihasan, where we second to the S. tombs.
These, however, have been almost entirely
destroyed, and the only one of any interest
is No. 7, the tomb of Rhett, which contains
hunting-scenes and fine clustered columns. Passing on we soon
reach (8 min.) the highly interesting N. tombs of Ami (No. i)
and Khnnmmhotep (No. 2); camp. pp. 14-18.

The necropolis of Benihasan is one of the most interesting in
all Egypt, not only on account of the remarkable architectural
features of the 12th Dyn. seen here, but also for the manifold representations of scenes from the domestic life of the Egyptians at
that early era.

The journey from the Nile to the tombs takes from v. km to 11/; hr.
according to the lei of the water and the landing-place selected. Asses,
with good saddles, 41/2 fr. Candles, and if possible magnesium wire,
should be taken to light the tombs. The route leads towards the here
limestone hills, at first through groves of palms and then across sand.
The ancient Bentham » t, Benifxamn eVEad5nt ('the old), now deserted lies
to the right; the modern village is to the S. of the usual landing-p see.
On reaching the limestone hills we see the remains of a dilapidated path,
supported by masonry, and ascend over debris to the horizontal hill-path,
to the W. of which stretch the tombs.

Before the traveller enters the tombs to inspect the representations within, he should examine the columns at the entrance. At
first sight everyone will set these columns down as unmistakeable
examples of the Dorie order; but the indisputable testimony of the
inscriptions informs us that they date, not from the Ptolemaic
period, but from the invasion of the Hyksos, in the 12th Dym, how
tween B.0. 2000 and 3.0. 3000. t

Champollion named them Proton-Doric or Pre-Dorie Columns.
Since him many authorities, with these columns as their starting-point, have tried to establish the kinship of the early Greek order
with the architecture of Egypt and to prove that the former was
derived from the latter. These views, however, aroused keen op












t The place was deserted 30 or 40 years before the visit of the French
Expedition, because the inhabitants wished a wider space for cultivation
near their village. which they mowing }: rebuilt farther to the S. The
story that the villagers were expelled by Ibrahim Pasha and exterminated
for robbery is a fabrication, although it is true that many of them were
executed for this crime.





