"Boat: I. BENIHASAN. From Cairo

in its Egyptian counterpart-f. The columns of Benihasan consist,
like the Dorie column, of a basis, an octagonal or sixteen-voided
shaft with 16 or 20 flutes, a capital, and an abacus. The echinus
or chymatium is, however, wanting. While the swelling or entasis
on some Doric columns, and also the annuli or rings at the top of
the shaft, have hitherto met with no sufficient enpleuation, the
same features appear as natural and necessary parts of tha sis-eau"
'plant column' (: of the Nile aimed consciously
at a reproduction of the stem of a plant, and as the capitals represented a bunch of bad)! it was natural that the cards which fastened
them should not be absent. Their number is five, and the 3 or
5 annuli at the top of a Dorie column, erroneously explained as incisions made for the ropes used in hoisting it to its place, are
simply an inheritance from the Egyptian column The idea of the
annuli, as of the entire Dorie column, is of Egyptian origin, though
the perfect Greek column, with the beautiful trantsitiorrqnem1Hyr
formed by the echinus, is far from a more imitation. The Greek
column has become an entirely new form, animated by a nsw principle player to itself, which has thoroughly mastered the heterogeneous elements from without and blended them in a new unity.'
In farther emphasis of the importance of these columns in the hisstory of art, we may remind the reader that the earliest Darin columns known to as date from about the time that the Psomtikidoc
(p. axis.) were not only allowing the Greeks to enter the valley of
the Nile but were inviting them to settle there, and that the columns of Benihasan are 1500 years older than this The columns of
Benihasan are indeed nothing more than the pillars in the Temple
of the Sphinx and the Mastaba (Baedeker's Lower Egypt, pp. 365,
379) provided with flutes and. chamfered edges.

The two tombs of chief interest, the farthest to the N., are easily
recognised by the beautiful polygonal columns at their entrances.
The donkey-drivers make directly for them, paying no attention to
the others. The numbering begins at the N. end.

Tomb 1. The exterior of the graham or vestibule is distinguished by two fine octagonal columns, bearing a flat vault hewn
out of the rock. Four sixteen-wedged columns, with narrow dating,
stand in the interior of the tombmchamber and appear to bear the
three beautifully painted arches of the ceiling, which are harm in
the form of shallow barrel vaulting The sideacolumns touch the
right and left walls of the nearly square chamber, in the rear of
which opens a recess containing the statues (much dilapidated) of
the deceased and his two wives. The usual long shaft leading to
the bottom of the tomb and the chamber for the corpse at the and
of it are also present. This is the tomb of Amcnemho or Ammi,



' Some details on this matter will be found in the section devoted
to Egyptian art in the first volume of this Handbook { 13 80)





