to dating. somehow. 1. Route. 15

the son of the Lady Hanna, who was one of the chief dignitaries
of the kingdom, bore the title of an capo he or prince, governed
the name of Mall in time of peace, and commanded a division of
the army in war. To the left and right of the entrance he is depicted on a throne with _ feet, holding his commander's baton in
his hand. Inside the door are two well-preserved inscriptions,
out in the stone. That to the right (8.) informs us that Amenemha
departed this life in the ddrd year of Ueertesen L, corresponding
to the 25th year of the governorship of Ameni. He undertook all
his wars'soiling ap-stream': --". he campaigned only against
the dwellers of the S., the'miserable Kushites', as they are called
in the inscription. In those days the arms of the Pharaohs had not
yet been carried towards the E. The Sinai peninsula, with its
mines, is the only district in this direction which excited the Egyption lust of conquest. From his southern campaigns Amenemha
brought home much gold and other booty. The inscription to the
left (NO also mentions a victorious campaign towards the S., but
is of special interest for the light it throws on the truly human
feelings of this bye-gone time. Amenemha describes his occupantions in time of peace as follows (beginning at the fourth line from
below):'1 cultivated the entire name of Mah with many workpeople. I troubled no child and oppressed no widow, neither did
I keep a fisherman from his fishing or a herdsman from his hard.
There was no head of a village whose people I had taken away for
compulsory labour, and there was no one unhappy in my days or
hungry in my times. When, however, a famine arose, I tilled all
the fields in the name of Mah, from its & to its N. boundary, and
gave nourishment and life to its inhabitants. So there was no one
in the name who died of hunger. To the widow I allowed as much
as to the wife of a man, and in all that I did I never preferred the
great man to the small one. Men the Nile rose again and every-n
thing flourished m- fields, trees, and all else---- - I cut "nothing
from the fields'.

The paintings in the interior of the tomb-chamber proper are
unfortunately very much faded, and they have also been considerably injured, especially in recent years. Some figures of warrlors which snll remain, armed with club and are or club and lance,
have a foreign appearance, as their skin is of a lighter colour than
that of the Egyptians, and their hair and beards are red.

Tomb No. 2 is that of Khnumhotep, the son of Nehera. It owes
its origin to a member of a family of high rank, in which the office
of governor of Mel } seems to have been hereditary for several generations. Amenemha I., Usertesen L, and Amenemha H, the first
kings of the 12th Dyn., showered titles and dignifies with a free
hand on this family, which in return clung to the royal line with
peculiar loyalty and affection By a wonderful piece of good fortune
we are able to reproduce the entire family--tree of this fa ,1. in





