16 Route 1. snmnasan. From Cairo

which the names of women fill a very important role. Amenemha IL
Ita-nub-kau C) FiiiFl Lil n I created Khnumhotep governor of
the E. names, and as the heir of his maternal grandfather made
him priest of Home and Pasht in the town of Monet Khnfu (Minyeh).

The portion or vestibule of this tomb deserves particular attention, as it not only possesses proto-Dorie columns resembling those
of Tomb i, but also shows some architectural forms, which seem
intended to reproduce the beams and rafters of buildings above
ground. The cornice projects strongly above the architrave and
is supported by fine lathe hewn, like all the rest of the structure,
out of the living rock. The resemblance of these lathe to the 11111-tnlcs of the Dorie order is not especially striking in itself, but taken
in conjunction with other points of similarity is, perhaps, worthy of
mention. - The interior of Khnumhotep's tomb is richly adorned
with paintings. Most of the representations were painted on a thin
layer of stucco, with which the limestone walls were coated. At the
foot, however, is a long inscription out in the rock, in lines of:
greenish colour, 21/2 ft. high. [ In 1890 the royal names were out
out of the rock by some vandal hand and shared for sale I ] From this
inscription we receive information about the family of Khnumhotep,
who owed the greater part of his dignities to his maternal grandfather, about his relations with Amenemha 11., who, at the intercession of his mother, made him a royal governor, and about the
benefits he had conferred on his government and its people and the
honour he had done to the gods of his name and the manor of his
forefathers. 5

The paintings have unfortunately suffered so much in the last
30 or 40 years, that the subjects of some of them are now almost
indistinguishable. Most of them, however, were cepied by Lepsius,
Bosellini, Wilkinson, and others, while they were still in fair preservation; and they have furnished most important contributions to
our knowledge of the private life of the ancient Egyptians. In the
uppermost row of paintings, above the door, was represented the
festival of the opening of the tomb of Khnumhotep.'The heaven
opens', says the inscription,'as the god (is. the deceased tank
formed into Osiris) steps forth'. To the right, lower down, we see
the colonnades of Khnumhotep's dwelling, with servants measuring
and registering his treasures and (farther on) bringing his corn into
the barns. Two of the lower rows show the operations of ploughing,
harvesting, and threshing. Still lower down is a Nile-boat, hearing the mummy of the deceased, as the inscription informs us, to
Abydos (the grave of Osiris), while the high-priest imparts his
blessing. Below is a representation of the vintage and of the gathering of fruit and vegetables. The cattle in the water and the fishing
scene (at the foot) vividly recall the similar scenes in the Mastaba
of Ti. To the left of the door, high up, are seen the processes of
preparing clay for pottery and sewing wood; in the second row







