to Ania }. sameness. J. Route. 17

Khnumhotep appears in a litter, inspecting hie potter: and carpenters. Some of the latter are felling palm-trees and others are building a boat for the journey to Abydos (see below). The most interesting of the scenes of artisan life in the lower rows are the
representations of women baking and weaving, under the supervision
of eunuchs .------- The entire Rear Wall is occupied by a tastefully
arranged representation of the water-sports in which the deceased
took delight. A forest of papyrus reeds grows by the waterside,
thickly peopled by all kinds of furred and feathered game. To the
right and left Khnumhotep is depicted in his boat, accompanied in
one instance by his wife Khuti, who is painted a lighter colour.
Here he transfixes large river-fish, there he holds the birds be has
brought down by his darts. Above are birds caught in a not. In the
river swim characteristically drawn fish, and crocodiles and hippopotami are also seem A man who has fallen into the water is being
healed oat again The dominant idea of the chase is farther carried
out in the representations of a hawk seizing a gaily-plumaged bird
and an ibis capturing a butterfly.

The N. Wall (to the left on entering) is the most important of
all, as upon it is the celebrated picture of a Semitic race bringing
cosmetics (mestem) and other presents to Khnumhotep. In the
lowest row, to the right, are seen the secretaries of Khnumhotep,
receiving the report of the steward of the cattle, who is followed by
the herds and shepherds. Just above this is Khnumhotep himself,
represented on a scale three times as large as the other figures and
accompanied by three dogs and a man with sandals, bearing a staff.
In the 4th row from below, on a level with the head and shoulders
of this huge figure, is represented a curious procession. Neferhotep,
the secretary, and another Egyptian lead towards the governor a
number of foreign people in gayucoloured garments, whose sharply
out t getting, hooked noses, and pointed beards unmistakeably proclaim their Semitic nationality. This Asiatic visit seems to have
been one of the signal events in the life of the nomarch. Neferhotep
hands his master a document from which we learn that the strangers
knock ed at the door of Egypt in the 9th year of king Userwsen IL
Prime Abaha, the leader of the foreigners, leads a gazelle and bows
to the ground. The next Asiatic leads an antelope. Four armed men
march in front of the harem, which consists of four women and three
children. Two of these ride upon an ass, which also bears implements for weaving. The women wear brightly coloured raiment of
a curious out. The clothes and loin-cloths ef tho men are also
brilliantly coloured. A heavily-laden ass is followed by a late »
player and a warrior armed with club, bow, and quiver. The inscription, beginning above the figure of the secretary Neferhotep,
is as follows:'Arrival of those bringing the eye-sale mestem (kobi
or antimony). He (he. Neferhotep) introduces 37 Aauss1 The Amas
were a Semitic race of Asiatic origin in the HE. of Egypt. W have

BAEannx'e TrppttEgypt, "u)'r: ri,










