1 8 Route 1. sameness. From Cairo

here, as it were, the advance guard of the invasion of the Hyksos,
towards the end of the 12th Dynasty. The Hyksos, named'Ama'
in an inscription in the neighbouring Specs Artemidos (p. H), consisted of isolated tribes, who purchased permission to enter Enpt
by tribute, crossed its boundaries, and finally penetrated to the in »
terior. The chief Absha here bows before the Egyptian; his successors carried things with a high hand and bent the Egyptians
under their yoke. - The flock of ostriehes behind the last Ama
belongs to the series of pictures on the left side of the wall, representing Khnumhotep, accompanied by his dogs, slaying wild
beasts with bow and arrows. Below is a flock of geese and e fowl-,
ing-scene. In the second row from the foot are bulls fighting and
scenes of cattleutending.

The S. Well (to the right) is occupied by procession: of servants
bringing gifts for the dead, a frequent subject in these representstions, and the offering of animals in sacrifice. Before one altar is
the figure of Khnumhotep, before another his wife Khnti, daughter
of Pent. r

The traveller will find many of the above scenes new defaced
beyond recognition, but he should not let this deter him from walking a little farther to the S. and entering some of the other tombs.
That of Kheti, one of the nearest (No. 7), easily recognised by the
three pairs of columns supporting the roof, contains interesting,
though half-obliterated representations of the innumerable gymnastic
and fencing exercises and games of the ancient Egyptians. Girls
are seen throwing the ball from one to another, and men ponder
carefully over a game of draughts. The Hunting Scam m of
linguistic value, as the names of the different animals are written
above them. Among these was a stag, new totally ofiaced. Mechanw
ice are depicted at work here and elsewhere. m- Travellers who see
the tombs of the new kingdom at Thebes, after having visited the
graves of Benihasan, will be astonished at the vastness of the im »
pression made upon the life and sentiment of the Egyptians by the
Hyksos period. At Benihasan everything recalls the tombs in the
Pyramids, and the subjects of representation are drawn wholly from
this earth; under the New Empire scenes of the future life and representations of the gods are also given. We should also notice that
the horse, on common in later times, never appears under the early
empire. The forms of the columns, including the beautiful lotus capitals (see Baedeker'g Lower Emt, p. 164), are of the greatest interest. The proto-Dorie column is seen here in all stages of development.
The plain pillar, the octagonal pillar, the octagonal and sixteen-w
sided columns, with and without flutes, all occur at Benihasan side
by side and may be looked upon as practical illustrations of the
section upon the Cavern Building of the Egyptians in the introduction to Lower Egypt (p. 160).

At 3643. (rail. scan, p. i), an important place on the W, bank,



