to assist.. ANTINOE. 1. Route. 19

with post and telegraph offices, several mosques, and a large sugar
factory, the railway approaches close to the river. The factory is
said to contain a stone with a hitherto unpublished Greek inscription.

Abou: of the once famous Ashmuntn. The ancient
5:189, while the Greeks called

it Emmopolis, the town of Hermes-theta, the god of writing and science;
whose chief sanctuary was situated here. Hence the town was also named
Pa reheat, or mm; of mom Kermopolia mgm was the capital of the
Hermopolitan'nome of Upper Egypt. The name dehmundn is derived,
"according to Quatremere (Mdmoires Geographiques, L, pp. am at corp),
from the fact that the town embraced two dimyrent communities, one
on the site, of the present ruins, the other, with a harbour, on the Nile.
Among the pinto; of the French Expedition are two views of a line
Portico of the Ptolemaic period, with two rows of six columns each
(Antiquités IV, PL 60, 51). The columns were 55 ft. high, and the portion
w 1243/2 ft. long and 291/2 ft. wide. In Minutoli's'Journey to the Oasis
of Jupiter Amman." (Plate XIV) a view is given of one of the columns
with the aartouche of Philippus Aridaeus, one of the successors of
Alexander the Great, who was 3 nniva of Aahmunént Thu mmuns of
the temple were used in building B ealtpetre factory.-~At Gebel Tunah,
near Her-mopelis, is a tablet (much dilapidated) with an inscription of
the eun-worehipper Ehtrematea, who lived on the opposite bank of the
river (comp. Tall ts1-Amarnah, p. 22).

Nearly opposite Redah, on the E. bank, lit from Benihasan,
lies the village of Shiloh'Abddch, with the ruins of Antioch.
Hadrian erected a new town in honour of his favourite Antinous
on the site of the Egyptian town of Bear, where the handsome
youth is said to have drowned himself, to faltH the oracle which
predicted a heavy loss to the emperor and so to prevent a more
serious disaster. The village 1593 on the bank amid palms of unansual size and beauty, and to the S. of it is a brook, new dry
except after rain, which must formerly have flowed through the
town. The remains of public buildings of the Egyptian period are
scanty. The French Expedition saw a triumphal arch, a theatre,
and two streets flanked with columns, the one running N. and S.
and leading to the theatre, the other at right angles leading to the
citymgste and the hippodrome. A lofty column here an inscription
of Alexander Severus (AND. 222). To-day, however, there are few
remains either of Greek or Roman times. Among the palms lies a
fine Corinthian capital. The marble belonging to the'vory fine gate
of the Corinthian order' that Pancake saw here and figured in his
book was burned to make lime for building the sugar-factory at
noon. The extensive wine of the ancient town lie to the E. of the
village of Shdhh *Abadch. The streets and ground-apiece of the
houses are still recognisable. The rooms were small and the walls
were made mainly of Nile bricks. There are, however, some turderground apartments of flat Roman bricks, reached by stone stair"
eases. Near the scanty ruins of one of the largest buildings lies a
basin of white marble, which must have had a circumference of
at least 23 ft.



Egyptian name was Khtmuan







