20 Route 1. min ENwNAKHLEH. From Cam

Those who are interested in Christian antiquities should follow
the E. bank from Shehh'Abhdeh towards the Si In about 3/4 hr.,
after passing some ruins of a late epoch, we reach the Ber Abu
Bennie (Convent of St. John), called also simply cal-Dir. In the
days of the Mameluke persecutions the Christians are said to have
lived here and at Shélrh "Abideh in comparative security, as the
Arabs believed that no Mohammedan could exist here on account
of the evil spirits. At present there are more fellahin here than
Gopts. There is little to be seen at cd-str. The crypt, in which
divine service is hold, is said to date from the time of the EmPress Helena. By ascending the hill at the back of the houses, we
reach, to the left of the ravine, some cave-like quarries, which
were fitted up as Christian chapels and were embellished at an early
date with sculptures. The main chamber contains paintings of saints
and scenes from the New Testament, but those in one of the side
chapels (Raising of Lazarus, Wedding at Gena, eta) are better.
To judge from their style these interesting pictures are not earlier
than the 6th cent. All. Among the Septic monks who resided here
(from the 4th cent. onwards) were Victor and his brother Koluthus,
Silvanus, and Macarius; and the tombs of the last two-are still
shown. The adjoining quarry was begun by Amenhotep Ill.

About 3/4 hr. beyond Dér Aba Hennis we reach Der oh,
the'convent of the dates-palms'. To reach the "Tomb with the repvcscntotion of the transportation of a Colossus, we cross the dry
water-course beyond the houses, ascend the hill on the left side,
and near the top reach a path on which, a little to the right, the
grave is situated. Guides may be procured for a few paras. Travellers descending the river should visit the tomb from Beulah,
above which towers the rocky Gcbct Shaikh Sa'id (with a shekh's
tomb), in which the tomb in question is hollowed out. The whole
district belonged to the some of Us or HermOpolis. The represenu
tation in this tomb is highly interesting as being the only one that
gives us an idea of the processes used by the Egyptians in moving
their colossal statues.

The Arabs thought it impossible that more human strength could
move such huge burdens, and hence a legend grew up among them that
the subjects of the Pharaohs were giants, who knew how to move masses
of rock with their magical stoves. Even the men of the present day, at
whose command stand forces of which the ancient Egyptians never even
dreamed, are astounded at their achievements in this direction and feel
inclined to solve the problem by ascribing to them the use of technical
aids, which we have no evidence that they possessed. The principles of
the pulley and the lever seem to have been unknown to them; and obstacles, which seem to us to demand imperatively the application of

steam and machinery, were overcome by enormous multiplication of sheer
human power,

, The dhahabiyeh should be sent on to Bersheh, in order to allow
time for a visit to the icture of the transportation of an Egy tian statue
(see above). About "m. are necessary u, nee comma. 1y all the
points on um mum










