to Acne }. Don surnames. I. Route. 23

The colossal figure within this tomb represents Kai, son of Tot » hotep, a high-priest, a steward of the mysteries of the word of God,
a privy ohsmberlein (superintendent of the works in the inner palm
ace), and the head of a name. His paternal grand-another was a
daughter of Usertesen 1., the second king of the 12th Dynasty,
and he was also connected with the royal family on the motherside. He was likewise related to the family of Nehera and Khnumhotep (see p. 15).

The successful transportation of the statue figured in his tomb was
one of the chief events in the life of Eat. The scene shows us an image,
13 all: in height, securely fastened to a sled. Small cushions are inserted
to resent the polished stone from being injured by the ropes. To the
ale are attached four strong cables, each maimed by 43 workmen (in all
172), the'young men", as the inscriptions inform us,'of the W. and E.
of the home: Da the lap of the figure stands a man clapping his handy,
probably the leader and time-giver of the song of the workmen, whose
task was facilitated by rhythmical movement. To this day in Egypt and
elsewhere the some custom is observed wherever the strength of many men
is united in some common exertion, as in the sailor's chant in raising
the anchor or hoisting Milt A man facing the time--keeper knocks two
wooden stamps together, obviously to transmit the roper time to those
too far off to hear distinctly the hand-clapping 0 the leader. On the
prow of the sled, behind the rings to which the ropes are fastened, stands
a man pouring water on the ground to prevent the heavily loaded sled
from taking fire by friction. Water-carriers stand ready to refill the empty

imbert Thane are followed by other labourers hearing notched beams,
or laying under the sledge when necessary. Three bailiffs or stewards,
with sticks, are each attended by four men, who seem from their simple
costume to be foreman, stone-masons, or extra-hands. At the top are
depicted seven wellsqoipped companies of infantry, marching in stiff
military order towards the advancing colossus. The officers bear tridents
mumbling those in the usual representations of Neptune, which may
either have been used as field-standards or for driving the cowardly
into action.

This highly instructive representation shows, among other points,
how unlimited was the authority of the nomarch over the people of his
name and how freely, not to say extravagantly, he could a ply human
labour in meeting his anda. One is tempted to pity the core e labourers
and to forget how en'h; which seem petty or even obnoxious to one
generation may have seemed to their ancestors worthy of an unlimited
expenditure of time, blood, and wealth. In the time of the pyramidbuilding 12th Dynasty it was accounted a noble and reputable thing to
erect the hugest and most durable monuments. The mass of the people,
who seem to have regarded the might of their oppressors in the same
light as we regard the workings of destiny, were proud to have had a
share in the erection of any specially important monument. Similar
considerations are suggested by seem in the tombs of the pyramids, and
the inscription accompanying the abovedescrihed picture gives us chapter
and verse for the accuracy of this view. It runs as follows:'Transport
of the thirteen-ell statue made of stone from Hatnub. Behold, the way
by which it was to be transported was of extraordinary difficulty. Truly
difficult was also the toil of the people in drawing the mighty mass along
it, in dragging (the colossus) in new atom I ordered the hands of young
men to march and prepare the way for it, with watchmen, carpenters,
and so forth. The most important were among them. The order was
issued that men. of a strong arm should go forth to fetch it. My heart
was full of content, and my fellow-citizens all rejoiced. The scene was
extremely beautiful to witness; the old man leans on the mum the
strong withstood the weak-hearted and timid. They thus became so strong
that each one. effected as much as a thousand. And ts h ue








