22 Route f, TELL surnames. tram Grim

of hewn stone went forth out of the'monntainr more unatterablyj grand
to witness than all things else.'Transportwships equipped withall magnifieenee1 the choicest of my young men and soldiers.. y children followed
me arrayed in feetal ornaments, and the inhabitants of my home, singing songs of praise, celebrated my arrival in the fortress of this town'.

The other representations in this t'omh off'er nothing unusual. Much
has been destroyed and defaced, principally by the monks, who tried to
sanctity the pagan work and drive the devil from it by marking it with
the sign of the cross. ._ ~.' g".

Below this tomb is another of the 12th Dynasty, belonging according
to the inscriptions to the royal Chamberlain Aha.. V

0n the W; bank, 1 M. from the Nile, is Malawi el-'Aris'h (rail.
stat, p.71), a small town with 10,000 inhab., where fowls, eggs,
eta, may be procured cheaply (large market on 81111.). In the vicinity are many large palms and also "sugarwplantationsn Farther
on, on them. bank, at the foot of the hill of the same name o, 201
lies frh6kh4Bvti1, with tombs of the old empire, including those of
priests of Khufu, Userkaf, and Pepi. t. _

We next reach the ruins of eta-men "and the grottoes of Tell 31..
Amarnah, two very interesting points on the E. bank, establish the
Toar weeks' steamer stops for a few hours on its return-journey.
The best plan is to disembark M st-Tell, visit the remains of the
old town, return to the dhahabi'yeb, and sail to Ham; el- Kama, where
donkeys for the visit to the grottoes are more easily obtained than
at cit-Tell. We pass to the right of the village of eta-Tell? 1/4 M.
from the river, and at the point where the cultivated land ends we
turn due 8. (to the right). After passing the ruins of a large building (probably a temple), new consisting of the foundations only and
nearly indistinguishable, we turn to the right from the path to via
sit the numerous relics of public and private buildings of all kinds.
There are larger and finer ruined temples in other parts of EgYPt:
but nowhere else do we obtain so excellent an idea of the actual
dwelling-places of the citizens. It looks as if the hand of deity had
bodily removed this large town (more than l M. long from N. to S.)
from the surface of the earth, leaving nothing but the foundations
to tell the after-world that many thousands of human beings once
lived and worked, suffered and rejoiced on this waste spot. The
lines of the streets may be followed and grounds-plans traced; but
the demands of cultivation are steadily chasing the remains.

Tell al-Amarnah. Whether we proceed by land from tst-Teil
or disembark at Hagg el-Kandil, we have to ride towards the hills
to the E., in which, even from a distance, we discover the gates of
the celebrated tombs of Tell elmAmarnah. In either case it is advisable
to have a guide. On the way we should not omit to visit the recently
discovered grave of the snnnworshipper Rho-envision (Amarillo-w
tep IV., see below), Of the two groups of tombs that to the N. is
the more interesting and the more easily accessible.

An interesting and not yet fully explained epoch of Emu" history
is illustrated here by a large number of paintings and inscriptions. In

the Historical Introduction to our first vol. an account is given of both
Amenhotep HI. and his son and successor Amehhete V I ttrtrt, a








