to Ming. TELL EL--f'i. l. Route. 23



mighty prince both in war and peace, was apious worshipper of Ammon,
whose name, indeed, forms part of his own (Amen-hotep }. Amenhotep lV.,
on the other hand, turned his back on his father's religion and on the increasingly spiritual conception of Amman (the'Hidden One') and the other
ancient gods, discarded his name'Peace of Ammon', became exclusively
a sun-worshipper, and named himself Khu-en-eten, is.'Redection of the
Sun's Birch; it is an interesting but doubtful question whether Amenhophis IV., in his role of reformer, intended to resuscitate, ", the simple sun-worship from which the religion
of the Egyptians had originally taken its rise, or whether he was moved
by the Semitic influences, which are so noticeable all over the country
after the expulsion of the Hyksos, to become m adorer of the orb of day
and to introduce a religious ceremonial that recalled the practices of the
Asiatic courts rather than the more dignified usages of the'Sublime Forte"
of Egypt. Portraits of historical personages often cast a clearer light on
their character than piles of written documents, and the numerous representations of Amenhotep IV. encountered in; these tombs show that he
was a sickly man, a fanatic, and an enthusiast. { The portrait-sit; of
him in the Louvre suggests similar conclusion" He also, as the inn
scriptions inform us, stood under the influence of his mother, who was
not of royal birth and seems to have encouraged her son's tendency to
prefer the old popular religion to the elaborately developed creed of the
priests. His work was distinctly reactionary and could not long survive
him. Almost everywhere we see his successors scratching out his name as
a sign of their disapproval and contempt. Where it still stands intact we
may conclude that it was overlooked. The fact that the portrait-like
reliefs of men in these tombs, as well as the horses and buildings, appear
more true to nature than in any other Egyptian monument may be due
to the greater liberty of divergence from the hieratic canon allowed in a
reign which was so unfavourable to the priestly dogmas Them reliefs
excited the special admiration of the Greeks. A Helium who visited them
inscribed his name as admiring the art of the priestly stone-cutters
ttit?, (rigs a docudfimr role { cools luordumv). Besides the palaces and tombs
of Te 1 el--Amarnah, Rhona-ates. also built a large Beaten or temple at
Thebes, the blocks of which were used for the pylon of King Horus. He
also' a temple in Heliopolis, the remains of which are still extant,
and probably another in Memphis. He is himself depicted on a pylon in
Sole }: (Nubia).'.'

Quite recently anew light has fallen on the history of Amenhotep IV.
and his predecessor through the discovery of several hundred tablets with
cuneiform inscriptions in the large Temple, or rather Palace, of Teil a? Amarnah t, which narrate the intercourse of the Kings of Babylon with
Amenhotep III. and Amenhotep IV. To the former King Dushratta of Mitanni gave his daughter Tadukhepa in marriage at and her dowry is stated
connect the tablets. Other tablets contain letters from Palestine and
Syrian vessels to the King of Egypt, and diplomatic notes from King
Burnaburiash to Amenhotep IV, concluding a treaty of peace and asking
for the hand of his daughter. Most of the tabla" are new in the Asiatic
Museum at Berlin, but many are in the British Museum and a few
at Gizeh.

N, Group. The tombs in each group are marked with red
numbers, running from N. to S. Most of the tombs are entered
from a small forecourt. and the doorways of many are adorned
with concave cornices. The dam leads into an oblong apartment,
communicating with a wide sepulchral chapel, with a small burialrecess in the background. The ornamentation of the ceiling is

very varied. Columns with bud-capitals occur frequently, some

t Some authorities believe that these tablets were found in the tomb
of Amenhotep 1V. (see above)...





