24 Route I. TELL EL-AMARNAH. From Cairo

of them unfinished, and the colouring of the reliefs is sometimes in
wonderful preservation. The mummy shafts, in spite of their great
depth, have all long since been despoiled of their contents. In the
very first tomb we find a representation of the king and his family
offering a sacrifice to the sun's disc. The disc is encircled with
the limes-snake and furnished with several arms, stretching downwards; the hands are symbolic of energy, liberality, and the creative
faculty. Dwarfs (then, as later, a favourite royal plaything), fanbearers, and bowing courtiers stand below. In front is the provostmartial with his baton. To the left of the first grave, on the hill,
is the Tomb of Panto (No. 2), which is in a very ruinous condition. Farther on to the left is that of Barnett (No. 3), with a finely
worked exterior. On the leftwall of the second chamber of this tomb
is a military scene, which we do not hesitate to describe as the
most realistic representation found hitherto in any Egyptian grave.
The lean figure of the Pharaoh, above whom the sun spreads its
arms, stands in his war-chariot and driven the fiery steeds, the introduction of which Egypt owes to the Hyksos. Sills (out-runners)
with long stares run in front of the chariot, towards the crowd of
people offering sacrifice and bending to the ground in adoration.
Standardwbearers and soldiers clear the way for the rapidly advanw
sing procession, just as the mounted harasses still do for the carriage
of the Khedive. The king appears once more followed by his
children, who also drive their own chariots. The procession hastens towards the royal palace, which covers the right part of the rear-wall
of the chapel and also part of the right well, affording us a clearer
idea of an Egyptian palace than any other scene of the kind. It
has long been established that neither the royal princes nor even
the Pharaohs themselves lived in the temples. On the contrary
they used to build themselves airy Chateaux of light materials, with
doors opening on shady galleries and colonnades. Gardens with
fountains and water-basins surrounded the building, meat which
were also out-houses, stables, and well-stocked storehouses, in
quantity corresponding to the huge number of the dependents
of the royal family. The great entrancendoor is dignified with
double rows of bud columns, and red standards were from lofty
flag-stem. Above one of the side-doors is a round window similarto
those which the French call milwdewbmnf. The palace is adjoined
by a sepulchral chapel, supported by columns and containing figures
of the king's ancestors, honoured by rich sacrificial oderings; at the
door is a choir, singing pious songs of remembrance to the accentupaniment of the help, and taking its time from the hand-clapping
of the leader (a custom still preserved in Egypt) .--In the first
chamber of Tomb 7 (right well, p. 26) is a representation of the
Temple of the Solar Disc, with a large peristyle court surrounded
by a colonnade. Pillars resembling Caryatides decorate the walls,
and above all tower the lofty pylons with their hollow ampules.



