to Ame; TELL chansons. I. Route. 25

Not only are the subjects of these representations of great interest,
but the character of the architectural drawing itself should be noticed. It is something between a sketch-plan and a finished picture.
The ground-plan i8 clearly indicated, but at the same time an idea
is given of the appearance of the external elevation of the building.
Clearness and. truthful reproduction of details are aimed at here as
zealously as in the figure-drawing. The ground-plan is first sketched
in, and then the outlines of the facades, and even the doors and
trees are added an in us the space allows.

The forms of the personsrcpresented vary considerably from those
seen in tombs elsewhere. Almost all have the same thickest body and
lean neck that characterize the king. The figure of the latter is, of
course, a portrait; and it is possible that the courtly artists burdened the subjects with the weaknesses of the prince so that his deformities might not appear as anything unusual. Amenhotep IV.
was certainly not a foreigner; but his mother Til may have been
one, and may have installed her fellowwcountrymen at the Egyptian
court. Even the highest dignitaries have nun-Egyptian features.
Among these is the royal favourite Morita, who is represented on
the right wall of Tomb 3, as literally overwhelmed with the golden
necklaces, rings, and orders, which the Pharaohs of the 18th Dynasty
delighted to shower on their loyal adherents; he stands in front of
the royal family, the members of which are attended by Gn-bearers
and courtiers of all kinds.'Let him receive gold', says the inscripw
tion,'on his neck, on his back, and on his t% t'. Secretaries make
a note of the donations and write out the royal patents, which are
also mentioned elsewhere. The fourth necklace is being hung
round the neck of Merits, while the fifth and sixth are handed to
him by two officials; a third attendant holds three golden rings.
The Urma, to whom this favourite belonged, were, in addition to
their other dignities, the most learned physicians and high-priests of
Helicpolis (mentioned in the inscription). The sickly prince naturally pays the highest honours to his physician, one of the Urma
priests. Another of these priests, named Khui, is mentioned in the
Ebers Papyrus as having prepared a famous eye-sores, and it is possible that Amenhotep IV. may have been blind or, at least, threatened with blindness. His outstretched neck suggests the attitude
of a blind man, and in the song of one of the priestesses by the
door-post of the same tomb occur the words:'The lord of goodness
arises.... No other one opens his countenance, healing his was
With his beams'.

Tomb, contained the remains of the'truth-loving' Aahmes, the
royal secretary, adjutant of the fast-bearers, and first lord of the
bedchamber. Here we find one of the great dignitaries celebrating
the glory of the sun. He praises the beauty of the setting of the
lord of the lords and princes of the earth, at sight of whom the
elect break forth into rejoicing, at whose risingez d ttin th hole








