26' Route I. TELL EhndMARNJAH. Mom 0cm

earth and all lands sing songs of praise. The praise of the king is
interwoven with the hymn to the sun:'Thou givest me honour
before the king all my days. A worthy burial after along life in
this land of the light-region of the sun's disc was accorded to me.
I fulfill the span of my life. I fulfill my life in the completeness
of a servant of the good god, who is free to ascend every throne he
likes. I am a vessel of the king'. Then follows a list of the titles
of Aahmes

Tomb 6 contains representations of columns, the shaft » or which
are encircled at regular intervals by rings resembling the tissue
enveloping the joints of reeds. The capital consists of several erect
bell-flowers, with dependent buds held together by a ring.

The Tomb of Huia (No. 7), the keeper of the treasury, also
contains'much that is interesting. The Temple of the Sun, on the
right well of the first chamber, has already been mentioned. The
king is shown seated upon a lion-guarded throne, illuminated by
the solar rays, and borne-by several courtiers. Before and behind
are noble youths with large and small fans. The same chamber
contains another striking and wellnpreservjed scene, representing
the studio of the sculptor Ante, director of the portraitnsculptors
(lit.'givers of life') of the hing's'r'nother Til. A wellneseeuted
statue of this powerful but unlovely princess is being coloured
by the master himself, while two younger sculptors (s-ankh) give
the finishing touches to the head and legs. The sacrificial scenes
are of the usual type. ~--The name of Khu, -en-stam has been almost
everywhere obliterated from the cartouches. The solar disc with
the arms appears frequently as a kind of talisman, sometimes above
the single hierOglyphics. While demanding devoted loyalty from
his subjects, the king seems to have enjoyed the most effeetionate
and. happy relations with his wife and daughters, in whose names
we recognise an echo of his own (Amen). The wife is named'Beauty
of the Solar Disc, the beauteous Dame Ait'; the daughters are Merit
Men, the darling of the sun: Amt: make, the ward of the sun;
Ankh-s en pa Amen, she who live- through the sun; Aten neha' ta
shera, beauty of the sun; the little Atcn hekt, servant of the sun,
and so on. Til, the mother of the king, is already known to us
(see above).

The S Tombs, 11/; group, are not so well
preserved. The graves formerly stood open and only those parts
undercover have escaped serious injury. In 1883 Maspero dug
deeper into the already opened graves, and opened some for the
first time, such as that of Maha (p. 27). The cartouches of Khan
t3nmmateIt are not scratched out in the newly uncovered tombs. Of
special interest are the recently discovered vaulted passages with
steps, leading downwards, which are unlike any other Egyptian
construction. I tie evident that these we re the actual burialnplaces.







