tenancy; TELL 1gL, pARttAat' 131201111; 27*

here. The northernmost tomb (No. Cot Lepsius) shorts us the king
and. his family standingbn a dais, below which foreign captives
are depicted. The royal pair receives rich tribute. Those bringing
the gifts are Egyptians. At, to whom the tomb belongs, is adorned
with necklaces on account of the abundance of his contributions.
Numerous servants carry the sacks and bottles to the open cellardoor, in front of which, in a bending attitude, is a bailiff with a
stem It is possible that the cellar belongs to Al", and that the gifts
are royal haunting to him. m The next grave to the 8., on a projecting .hill, was excavated in 1883. It was destined for Modes, a
commander of the royal police, and scenes from his life (Arrest of
mountaineers, Escort of the king's equipage, etc.) are depicted on
the walls of the first chamber (esp. to the right of the entrance).
In the right Mde-wM1 is a door bearing a prayer in behalf of Mehu
to Atom-alto. (theradiating solar disc). « on The next tomb, that of
the royal official Tutu, contains (to the right of the entrance) the
almost complete text of a hymn, sung by a priest in praise of the
sun:'The breath of the wind', says the hymn,'enters their nostrils,
and Thy gift it is that they have being All flowers bloom and
grow in their beds, and they flourish at Thy uprising, Festal joy
arises at the sight of Thy countenance, All quadrupeds hurry along
on their feet, all the birds in their nests flutter their wings in joy'.
This tomb also possesses a'papyrus' column, of unusually careful
workmanship and elaborate ornamentation. The basis of the can
pita ]. is encircled, among the leaves, by a Urmusw-serpent; and at
the upper end of the shaft, below the richlyaadorned band replacing the annuli are singular decorations consisting of sacrificial
gifts, including many birds in groups of fire--- To the 8., at a
little distance, lies the tomb designated by Lepsius as No i This
also is dedicated to a high dignitary named Al, perhaps the same
as in Tomb 3. On the entrance--wall to the right is represented a
festival, which some interpret as that of an order, while others take
it for the marriage of M, fan-shearer and commander of cavalry, to
the royal nurse. The king, denoted by the disc, his wife, and his
daughters stand on a date. The courtiers, from the charioteers to
the military officers and fan-bearers, receive with deep obeisances
the decorations which the Pharaoh, the queen, and the princesses
throw down to them. The foremost dignitary already wears six
necklaces, and the lady behind him is just adding a fifth to the
four she already possesses. A troop of dancers enlivens the proceedings by energetic leaps and contortions, and secretaries make
a note of the donations. To the S. are several other graves, including thaw oi Apii and Ramses, the latter a general and chamberlain of Amenhotep HI. To the N.N.W. of these tombs lay the huge
residence of the singular king Khuuenmaten, which was perhaps
destroyed by the same generation that obliterated his name from
the cartouches.







