28 Route l, 1) th ESH-SHERIF. From Cairo

Beyond Hagg el-Kandil the Nile-voyager passes several small
villages, but neither they not the scanty mine of the Pharaonic
epoch near them deserve a visit.

In a ravine near eVEawtgtah (E bank) stands a stale with a
hieroglyphic inscription, discovered by the late Mr. Harris, British
consul at Cairo and excellently versed in Egyptian antiquities.
Farther on we skirt an island and reach the point on the W. bank,
between the villages of ct-Gcsireh (tic. fished") and cl-Mandurah,
where the Bohr Yusuf or Joseph's Count, an arm of the Nile, din
verges from the main stream to water the agricultural districts of
the Libyan bank, the Fayfim (p. 35) etc. The name of Joseph, was
given to it by the Arabs, who recognise in the son of Jacob the type
of all administrators. It probably owes its regulation if not its origin
to Amenemha 111., of the 12th Dynasty. Extensive works are new
in progress to furnish the W. part of the Libyan bank with water
from a point higher up the Nile, near Assidt.

About 5 M. below the divergence of the Bohr Ydsnf, at some
distance from the Nile, lies Dem ash-Shorif (rail. stat, p. I).
About 1-1/4 M. above (S. of) the fork, on the E. bank, are some
brick ruins, and 11/4 M. farther to the S. are the mounds of Dds
ringleader, probably the site of the ancient Peach. This is the N.
boundary of the dur-palms, which, however, do not attain their
full development till farther up, between Assidt and Keneh, where
we see many fine specimens (p. 70). The Arabian Mm, rising in
precipitous rocky walls, approach the river. Swallows, ducks, and
other birds inhabit the caves in the porous rock on the banks, and
fly in and out in screaming crowds. The clifi's on the right bank of
this part of the Nile are known as Gebel Aba 266311. The stream
below them is considered the most dangerous part of the channel
between Cairo and AMuttn. Violent winds blow round the crags,

and numerous sandbanks impede navigation.

The Arabs tell that e ship-master of Neath, having safely arrived at
Bdldlc, was asked by his friends how he had used the Gebel Abu FMS,
'Quite easily", was his rejoinder,'there's no danger there". An old man
who overheard him remarked:'From your own words I see that you
do not know this mountain"'l know it as well as my own eyes', said
the boatman.'When I return to Feasts I must pass it once more. If my
vessel sud'ers any damage in doing so, I will pay you 107000 gamma, on
condition that you pay me the like sum it I ass safely. But I give you
due warning that I know the Gabe ]. Ahu Fdda perfectly well'. he old
man accepted the wager. and the ship-master had his boat bound with
iron, engaged the best sailors, and set form As he approached the (label
the boat was assailed at first by one wind, and afterwards by four stormwinds, each blowing from a different quarter. The ship, in spite of m
imn fastening, was cast upon the rocks and went to pieces and the
vainglorious re'is as he scrambled ashore with nothing saved but his
life. cried:'Gebel Abe Fédah, I never knew you till now". Numerous
similar stories are related of these clifi's. And no wonder, for nothing
can be more mysterious and spectral than their appearance at twilight,
when the dark swarms of birds fly towards the rocks and disappear as
suddenly as if engulfed by it.

The hill contains many rock-tombs, which hart not yet" as ea. tally








