to Assay. MA'ABDEH. 1. Route. 29

investigated. Travellers who wish to do so will find the hill not a very
arduous climb. In descending they may strike the river at a point a
little farther to the S and row thence to the dhahabty eh

On the W. bank, 3 M. from the river, lies el-Eusiyeh, now an
insignificant fellah town, representing the ancient Kusae, in which,
according to Ellen, Venus Ursula and her cow (im Hacker nebt
pet Rather, the mistress of heaven) were worshipped. No inscriptions have been found in Eusiyeh itself, but elsewhere the name
of Rather occurs as the Lady of Real. From Kesi came the Coptic
Burs--Kent (hbsukobj, and thence was derived the Arabic Kusiyeh.

At ei-Raith, on the E. bank, are the ruins of an ancient Egyptian town, at the mouth of a Widi ascending to the Arabian mourn--tains. The walls, provided in places with window-openings, are
high, but fragments of demotic inscriptions show them to be of late
date. Small caves in the rocks contain bones from mummies of
men and cats.

Monialdt, on the W. bank (rail. stat, see p. o, an important
town with 13,200iuhux, is the seat of a Coptic bishop and contains several fine villas and gardens and a human Its market is
much frequented on Sun, and it also pressesses a sugarwfactory
and a distillery, where date-brandy Catskill) is made, partly for local
consumption by the Gupta and partly for expert. The town lies
close to the river, which must here have greatly encroached on the
W. bank since the close of last century. The Arabs translate Monfalfit as'Lot's place of banishment'.

To the S W. of Monfalut lies Bani'Adin, where in 1798 a collision
took place between the troops of General Bosnia and the Arabs In the
following year, just after the arrival of a caravan from Darffir, General
Davoust destroyed it as a nest of rebels, taking the women prisoners.
Muhammad mm mm his army here in 1820. film journey to the oasis
of Ferdfroh (p. 348) is frequently begun here The first station to the
N. W is the convent of Marcela, containing 50 Coptic monks

Jiltrhlhtstri1lti1, a small village on the E. bank, lies on a
narrow strip of fertile land between the Nile and the S. and of the
rocky Gebel Abe Eddaln It re the starting-point for a visit to the
Crocodile Grotto of abdeh. A guide, who may be procured in
the village of Shehilhil, is necessary to show the best way over
the stony hill and to point out the entrance to the cavern, which
easily escapes the eyes of even practised searcher? » Lantern and
ropes are also necessary, and a few strong sailors to handle the
latter. Ladies should not attempt this excursion The distance is
about 41/2 L "and most of the way is up a steep hill. We first
proceed towards the N. W to the (1/2 hr.) village of cleo obdeh,
and. thence to the N. E towards the hill, the plateau of which we
reach in 3/4 hr. A. walk of 3/2 hr. towards the S. then brings us to
the grotto. The entrance is in the shape of a hole 12 ft. deep, into
which we are lowered by ropes, a guide previously descending to
aid in landing. We then creep on all fours for some distance
through the dust of ancient mummies, and after some time







