30 Route 1. transom. mm Cairo

ascend a branch to the left. The passage in a straight'direction
chiefly contains human mummies, while that to the left is packed
with mummies of crocodiles. Some of these are of great size, and
in other cases bundles of 25 baby~crocodiles are put up together.
Baskets of best contain croccdfleveggs, with the shells, contain"
ing the embryo, still unbroken. After some time we reach a more
spacious part of the grotto, where it is possible to stand erect. It is
not improbable that the care bed a second entrance on the other
side of the hill but this has not yet been discovered Great care
should be exercised in using the lights; two Frenchmen who accidentally set fire to the mummy-bandages were suffocated by the
smoke and burned to ashes. It was here that Mr Harris found
the celebrated papyrus MS. containing fragments of Homer's Wad,
which was held in the hand of the mummy of a man wearing a
coronal of gold. The enormous number of' Crocodile Mummies
found here will astonish no one who knows the following passage
in the trustworthy "Abdellatif (12th cent)'Among the animals
peculiar to Egypt the crocodile must not be forgotten, which occurs
in great numbers in the Nile, particularly in the S. part of Said
(Upper Egypt) and in the vicinity of the cataracts. There they
swarm like worms in the water of the river and around the slide
that form the cataracts't In his time there were still crocodiles in
the Delta. These animals are new totally extinct on the lower Nile;
none has been seen for many years between Cairo and (label Abe.
Fedeh, and they are becoming very rare between the latter point
and Assuan, mainly, it is said, owing to the noise of the steamboats. Even between the First and Second Cataracts they are now
rare, though 20 years ago they were very frequent.

The road to Assiiit, which we encountered on our visit to et-Tell
(see p. 2%), leads across the Gebel Abe. Fetish and reaches the Nile
at Bani Mohammad, near the S. base of this hill. In the hill beyond
Beni Mohammad are some tombs of the 6th Dym, with 1yainteresting snd hslfoffstred representations of agricultural and other
scenes. In the valley lies the Ceptic convent Dir cl-chbrai, containing a Greek inscription (discovered by Mr. Harris) in the shape
of a dedication of the camp of the Lusitanian Cohort, which served
under Diocletian and Maximise? to Zeus, Hercules, and Nike (Victoria). In the desert, between the consent and the We, are some
scanty fragments of walls of brick, which seem to have belonged
to the fortified camp.

Between Monfaldt and Assifit (26 M. by water, 17 M. by land)
the Nile makes several great bends, which occasion a good deal of
delay to navigation. The generally incurable RE. wind here
sometimes blows broadside on and sometimes even against us The
greatest curves are at Bdkir elm Mcnkobdd and el- Amrdg. EelMenkabad, Coptic Man Karat ('potters village), situated on an
artificial arm of the Nile, has long been famous for it pottery. To










