to Adaifty. A AssrtT. 1. Route. 31

the S. of it lies Bani?) sl-trar-dns, inhabited by Gupta.
The mountains of the E. bank new recede, and the foot-hills of the
Libyan chain approach the river, on the banks of which grow several
fine groups of sycamores. The minarets of Assiilt now come into
eight, and numerous dredgers are seen at work in the canals. We
land at eZ-Eammh, the palms-enclosed harbour of Assifit, with its
steamers and other boats.

Passengers by railway reach Assiiit in the evening after dark, as the
train is not due till 6.30 pan. and is generally late. Those who do not
wish to spend a day here, in order to see the town and the neighbouring
tombs (p. 32), should at once transfer themselves and their luggage to
the steamer (dragoman of the steamboat agents at the station). The path
to trl-W-h.. (see above), a walk of about 20 min. (donkeys for hire), leads
along the railway track, and, as it is not lighted, a man should precede
the party with a lantern. The train, however, often rune right down to
the harbour. On reaching the steamer the traveller should at once make
sure that all his baggage has been brought aboard.

harlot, Alt, or em; (New Hotel, kept by G. Benoit, near the station, 123. per day, not very good), 252 M. from Edith, is one of the
oldest and new one of the most important towns on the Nile, containing 31,600 inhab., a railway station, and steamboat. post, and
telegraph offices. There are British, American, French, German, and
Austrian consular representatives. The public baths are well fitted
up. The Egyptian Mission of the American Presbyterians (100 stations, 26 churches, 97 schools) has one of its stations here, with
interesting schools for girls and boys. The sacred name of the place,
Peanut ('town of the wolf-headed Anubis') or Pa ap hem kernel
(N. town of the way-opener', he. Anubis) gave rise to its Greek
name of Lycopolis (see below). Its secular name, even in the ancient

4....

a
kingdom, was Smut, Coptic SiBut. No other town,
except Mdddm, has preserved its ancient name with so little change.
With the exception of a few fragments of columns, nothing remains
of the living quarters of the ancient town, but the older part of the

necropclis contains some very interesting italics of early times.
Holiness, the greatest of the nao-lenie philoso berg { 205370 A.DO,
was born here in the beginning of the 3rd cent, an his system was not
uninfluenced by the priestly doctrines of his native town. From the beginning of the 4th cent. onwards Christianity was dominant in the town
and neighbourhood. Pious believers took refuge in the caves of the
necropolis to live a life of penitence a m from the worm One of these,
Jobs of Lycopoiis, at the end of the th cent, bore the reputation of a
saint and even of a prophet. Theodosius sent an embassy to him to ear
quire the outcome of the civil war. The anchorite foretold a complete
but bloody victory, and this prophecy was fulfilled in the victory of
Theodosius over Eugenics at Aquileia in 394 AD. The life of the saint
of Lyoopolis was written by his friends Rufinus and Palladins. The grotto
that he occupied cannot now be distinguished from the numerous others
in the hills, but the rocky chamber of another hermit of the name of John
can be identified in the vicinity of Benihasan, for he wrote on the wall
the Coptic phrase:'make prayers for me miserable. I am John'. Towards
the end of his life St. John of Assiiit lived in the Convent of the Seven
Hills, at the to of the ridge, which was named after him the Convent
of "John the ass. Mahrizi relates that St. John, at th bi F hie










