32 Route 1. ASSI'O'T. From Cairo

teacher. once puma and watered a piece of an wood and that a fruit-tree
sprang up, called the'Tree of Obedience', yielding fruit for the monks.

From very early times [ mint Was considered the northernmost point
of the Thebaid.

The steamers and dhahabiyehs are met at et-Hamrah by donkey
boys with well-saddled donkeys and by sellers of pottery, which
can nowhere in Egypt be obtained better than here. The fine pottery
of health, especially its bottles and pipe-bowls, is justly celebrated
and forms an important article in its export trade, which also deals
in. linen, embroidered leather goods, ostrich feathers and other products of the Sfrddn, natron, soda, and corn. It has, however, lost
part of its commercial importance since the great caravans from W.
Africa have frequented other routes and places. Large trains of
camels still come from Darfdr and Kordofdn, generally encamping
at Bent'Adin (p. 29), 19 M. to the N.W. of Assidt. The vicinity
of Assidt is one of the best-cultivated districts in the valley of the
Nile, the fertile strip between the Libyan and Arabian Mts. here
attaining a width of 12 M. The province of Assifit, the mudir of
which resides here, contains 234 villages with 583,596 inhab. (incl.
the cases of Khdrgch and mad). Near the harbour are several large
palm-gardens, in which also grow pomegranate, fig, and other fruittrees. These gardens are lot at enormous prices and produce rich
harvests of fruit.

Those who have 21f2~3 hrs. to share should not omit to ride
through the town and to the tombs on the slopes of the Libyan
limestone hills, not only for the sake of the antiquities, but to see
the busy Oriental life in the bazaars and to enjoy the view from the
graves. Candles and matches must not be forgotten. To visit Assidt
from the dhahabiyeh and to ride through it takes about i hr. The
town lies about 3/4 M. from the river and is reached from the hat »
hour by an embanked road shaded with beautiful trees. Outside
the town lie the long government buildings. The streets are full
of busy life, especially on Sundays, when the people of the neighbourhood flock into the market. Oriental wares are cheaper in the
bazaars of Assidt than at Cairo, but European goods are dearer. The
better houses are of burned brick, the meaner of sun-dried Nile
bricks. The facades on the street are generally unimposing, but a
glance into one of the courts of the bigger houses will show that
the wealthy merchants of Assifit are not indifferent to comfort and
display. The main street intersecting the town from E. to W. is
nearly 3 M. long.

Neoropolis of Ancient Lycopolis. To reach this from the herhour we require at least 12 hr. Riding through part of the town,
we diverge from the main street at the point where it bends to the
right and proceed to the left, through the cultivated land and across
a handsome bridge, to the foot of the Libyan hills. The dark
openings of the tombs and caves are conspicuous at a distance in
the abrupt sides of the mountain, below which Ii he u w Arab









