to Arafat. assmr. 1. Route. 33

cemetery. On the way, especially in the foreman, we often meet
funeral processions, resembling, with their waning women and
water-distributors, those of Cairo, but producing a much more
solemn effect through the absence of the bustle of the crowded
streets and the presence of the deserted city of the dead. Nowhere,
not even in Cairo, are the funeral songs so strange and weird as
here, or sung by such deep and tuneful voices.

At the foot of the hill we dismount and follow the good path
which leads to the most interesting tombs. A tomb below, near the
Arab cemetery, is unimportant. Mighty grandam of the ancient
empire, who filled the highest secular and ecclesiastical offices,
bowed huge vaults in the rocks here for the reception of their mum-'
mies. Other tombs, smaller and less elaborately decorated, belong
to simple burghers of a later period; and there are also holes in the
rock for mummies of the jackal, which was sacred to Anubis Apheru,
the local deity of Assim. It is this animal that the Greeks in this
instance wrongly called Lykos or wolf (whence Lycopolis), but a
few genuine wolf-bones have also been discovered here. Mummified
dogs, kittens, and birds of prey have been found, wrapped in linen
hands and sometimes, adorned with gilding. Those who do not object to creep into some of the dusty and ill-smelling holes will still
easily find fragments of sacred animals. The jackal, along with the
Uraeus-snake, haunted proudly on the standard of this name, the
chief town of which was the capital of the whole of Upper Egypt in
the time of the ancient empire.

The path, which is well-made though somewhat steep, leads us
first to a large rock-hall, the ceiling of which is roughly hewn in
the form of a vault and still bears traces of blue stars painted on a
yellow ground. Sadly defaced inscriptions, in the style of the ancient empire, cover the walls. The hieroglyphics on the door are half
obliterated, but enough remains to show that this was the grave of
Wp-Zeta, son of Dame At at, a high-priest, and governor of S. Egypt.
The Arabs call it Istabl'Antar, or the stable of Amer, a here Of
tradition (comp. their name for the Specs Artemidos at Benihasan,
p. 11) The "View from this tomb is very fine. The fertile land
and the Nile enclosed by the limestone hills of Libya and the Arabian mountains in the distance form a quiet but by no means monotonous setting for the beautiful town of Arrsitat with its eleven mime
Titty and its environment of palm-gardene. The view is still grander
from the higher tombs. The second chamber of this tomb is covered
with important inscriptions To the right on entering is one of
64 lines, which cannot be read without the aid of a long ladder and
a good lantern. It contains ten articles from the code relating to
the worship of the dead, determining, amongst other things, the
sacrificial gifts for the statues of the deceased These were translated first by Maspero and afterwards by Erman, while the revised
text has been published by F. L Griffith (1889). To the left is

BAEDEKER'S Upper Egypt.





