34 Route 2. Rum. b Tours.

another almost illegible inscription, engraved, like a palimpsest,
above an older text and referring to lisp-Zeta; on the same side
are eartouohes of Usertesen 1.

Higher up, to the right (NO, is a row of three tombs close to
each other, the northernmost of which has been destroyed. The
second is the Kahf eV'A8dkir, or Soldiers' Tomb, so named from
the rows of warriors on its S. well. On the right side of this tomb
is a long and partly enaced inscription, referring not only to Rheti,
father of Tef ah, the owner of the tomb, but also to King Merikara
{ 12th Dyna, acc. to Maspero, of the 10th or Heracleopolitan Dye),
in whose reign Kheti lived.

The adjoining tomb (to the left or 8.; No. 3) contains a long inscription referring to Tsf as, a high-priest of Aphem (Anubis),
lord of Aiusiilt. A little farther to the S. is the tomb (No. 2) of an
other Hap-Zcfo, son of M and headman of the district ofAtef-khent.

The geological formation of this hill of tombs is very interesting,
especially on account of the numerous specimens of Condensers stilettos
and other fossils found on its upper part. The limestone is so hard
that it emits sparks, and hints occur in considerable quantity.

Among the curiosities "Again; there most not be forgotten the small
piece of water standing between the river and the town, the ancient legend of whose ed'ect upon virgins is still half seriously related. Pan ].
Lucas is probably the first author who mentions it, and Michaelis devotes
a paragraph to it in his edition of Abulfeda's Description of Egypt _
139):'De quo stagno fingunt Siutenses, ejus potu aigna virginitatis tripi,
undo exensatas habent noves nuptas virginitatem non prodentes, Felix certs inventnm, nee despero tales In vieimy tmarum quoque et Europae erbium, quod felix fauatumque virginibus
m, fontes".

At mst Muhammad: x-Kmr, opposite Assidt, are several important
tombs of the 8th Dynasty, belonging to nomarchs and (probably) relax

mm of King Pepi.



Comp. Hop, 1).. 2.

A. Teen rnaooon rna Fsrbn, including a visit to the Labyrinth, the
site of Lake Maris, the Birket tsl-NTU with its abundant Wildfowl,
and the rum in its neighbourhood, takes & 8 days, and requires' tent,
a dragoman, and a supply of provisions. A dragornan charges 3040 tr.
a day for each person, according to the requirements of his employers,
and for that sum he is bound to provide them with a tent, provisions
(wine excepted), and donkeys, or other means of conveyance, and to
pay railway fares and all other expense; A written contract (map.
p. xoO, specifying the pieces to be visited, the points where some stay is to
be made (on which occasions a reduced charge per day should be stipulated
for), and other particulars, should be drawn up before starting. Those
who intend to visit Medinet e1Wayiim and its immediate environs only,
and who do not object to rough quarters for one or two nights, may
dispense with a dragoman and a tent, but should he provided with a
moderate supply of food. An introduction to the mudir will be of great
service in enabling the traveller to procure the necessary home: or donkeys,
which the inhabitants are often unwilling to him (comp. pp. 37, 42).

Since the completion of the railway this excursion hut usually been
undertaken from Cairo, but it may also be combined with a visit to
Sahhdrah. It was formerly usual to visit the Faydrn in connection with
a journey up the bile, but this plan entails needless expense, as the boat
and its crew have to be paid for while lying idle f"W, ya. If,










