PREFACE.

Way-ug
The present volume forms the second part of the Editor's Handbook for Egypt, the first part of which has reached
a second edition in 1885. _

The materials upon which this Handbook to Upper Egypt
is chiefly founded were contributed principally by Professor
Georg Eben? Johannes Dfimichen 0f
Strassbur, and their work, w ich was mainl finished in
1877, has been revised, augmented, and broug t up to date
in all practical details by Professor August Eisenlohr of
Heidelber, who has twice visited E ypt for this express
pu use. 0 Prof. Ebers the editor is in ebted for the account
of t e Nile-voyage as far as and including Philse; Prof. Diiw
michen contributed the descriptions of the temples of Den: derah and Edfu. of the town of Keneh, and of the caravanroutes thence via the quarries of flamamat to Koser on the
Red Sea; while the routes in Lower Nubia and to the Western
Oases are wholly from the pen of Prof. Eisenlohr.

The practical introduction to the first volume, and the
sections on the geography, history, and art of Egypt, there
pjublished, apply of course also to the districts of Upper
Egy t. The special introduction to the present volume deals
chiefly with the Nile voyage and the necessary preparations
for it, preceded by a brief survey of the chief steamer-Nates
between Egypt and Europe and a note on the new E.'
monetary system, introduced since the publication 0151' the
Handbook to Lower Egypt, A list of works on Egypt is
added, and, to obviate the necessity of too frequent references to the first volume, also a chronological hat of the
rulers of Egypt down to the close of the Ptolemaic period,
and a selection from the royal cartouches of most frequent
occurrence in Upper Egypt. Finally the Arabic Alphabet
is given, showing the system of transliteration adopted in
this Handbook.

The MAPS and PLANS have been an object of especial
care. The former are based upon the large maps of Kiepert,
Lepsius, and Linant; the latter chiefly upon the plane of
Lamina, though with the necessary additions and corrections.
while some have been specially prepared by Prof Eisenlohr.








