Situation. 2. Route. M

however, the traveller prefers this plan, he disembark: a: What: and sends
on his dhahahiyeh to Bani Suit, which he afterwards reaches by railway.

RAILWAY from Cairo to Medinet el-Fayiim (mum de la Haute-Egypte),
75 M. in about L lush The trains are often late. «--A train starts daily
at 8. son. from the Build }; edmakri1r station, reaching Wham. (p. i) at
10.38 can. (belt of 20 min.; change carriages) and Medinet e1-iim et
12d6 .91. A second train starts from Bdldh eduDakrdr at 3 pun. reach"
ing catch at 5.29, where the train leaving Assm at 8.39 am. - at
4.25 em. From Wastah the Faydm train roceeds at 5.45 p.m., reaching
Medineh at 7 Path. « From Medinet el-Fay m the line goes on to Senhdr,
but for a visit to the Birket tti-Kurtz, horses must be brought from Me
dineh (comp. p. 42). ~---- A train iehvea Medisustoi-5rayilm daily at 9 a.m.,
reaching Wntn n ma Bam Ind Bititt ad-Dalmlr "145 ohm.

Streamers nan Hierosr or run Futon. In the great plateau of the
Wynn Desert, which rises 300-400 ft. above the sea-level, is situated the
province of the Emma (from the anciem Egyptian Wtdum', u mush or
lake district), the first of the oases (p. 343), which is usually considered
to belong to the valley of the Nile, and is justly celebrated for its extraordinary fertility (p.). This tract is in the form of an oval basin,
840 eq. M, in area, and supports a population of 2007000 souls; it is enclosed
by the Libyan hills, which are here of moderate height, and lies about
threewdfths of a degree to the S. of Cairo. It enjoys a remarkably the
climate, and has but rarely been visited by the plague. This'land of
roses' is still one of the most beautiful parts of Egypt, and more than
any other Npart of the Nile valley deserves the well known epithet of'the
gift of the lie", bestowed on Egypt by Herodotus, as it is entirely indebted
for its fertility to the waters of the Nile with which it is artificially irrigated.
The Batr fw (p. 28), a channel 207 hi. in length, which is more probably
a natural branch of the river, artificially adapted, than a mud, diverges
from the Nile to the N. of Assi'tit, and flows through a narrow opening in
the Libyan chain into the Fayam, where it divides into numerous
ramifications, abundantly watering the whole district. One of its branches
runs towards the N., skirting the E. slopes of the Libyan him At the point
where the Bah: Yumf mum the Faydm, the district forms a plateau of
moderate height, descending towards the W. in three gradations towards
the Birket elcgnrdn, a long: narrow lake, extending from S.W. to NE.
On the easternmost and highest part of the oasis the Labyrinth and
Lake Morris (pp. 39, all) were once situated; the central part yields the
luxuriant crops for which the province is famous, while the western »:
most part chiefly consists of sterile desert land. To the W. and N. of the
Birket ssH, rattin rise precipitous limestone hills, beyond which lies the
immense sandy desert of aways. The hymn must have been reclaimed
from the desert ata very early period, probably during the early empire,
in the reign of Amenemha IIL, as monuments of his period indicate
that he was perhaps the first of the Pharaohs who sought to regulate
the whole course of the Nile. On the Upper Nile Prof, Lamina has
found Kilometers constructed by that monarch, and in the Feyfima on
the me of the Labyrinth, a number of blocks of stone inscribed with his
name. The Greeks chum him Amelie, or Morris, and believed that the lake
known to them ", which they regarded as a marvel of
engineering skill, was named after him. The word mart, however, is
the Egyptian for take or overflow, so that the great basin of the F-ydm
was simply'the lake", and it was from his exertions in connection with
the irrigation works that Ameuemha obtained the name of Marie. We
lalm from a papyrus roll treating of the
Faydm, that the province was known in the time of the Pharaohs as To
that, or the lake- and, and mat Luke Maria was called seat, signifying
the discharge or posterior lake. On its bank rose the celebrated Labyrinth, which was probably renewed by the Bubastite monarchs of the
22nd 33 arty. About the same period the town of Crocodilopolis, situated on she Hearts, the wife of Ptolemy Philadelphns, was so extended and embellished by Osorkon I. that
it is called the'city of Osorkon I.' in the inscriptionontbc .t d





