36 Route 2. MEDiNET EL-FAY'UM. Fayam.

stale of Piankhi. The whole province was at first called the lake-land,
then the district of Crocodilopolis, and lastly the Arsinoite Nome. The
deity most highly revered here was the crocodilenheaded Sebek, the reptile sacred to whom was carefully tended in Lake Moerie. At the same
time the voracious and dangerous monster, notwithstanding the reverence
paid to it on account of its connection with the inundation, was also
regarded as Typhonic, and the Crocodilopolitan nome was therefore
passed over in the lists of nomes .--At the period preceding that of the
Psamtikides of the 26th Dynasty the Labyrinth appears to have been need
as a hall for great imperial assemblies. At the period of the Ptolemies
and the product! of the Fay'dm were much extolled. "The
Arsinoite Nome", says Strobe,'is the most remarkable of all, both on sea
count of its scenery and its fertility and cultivation. For it alone is
planted with large. run- town, And mm lyroriaetive olire-trsaa, and the
oil is good when careful } prepared; those who are neglectful may indeed obtain oil in than once, but "lug a bad small' In the rest of
Egypt the olive-tree is never seen, except in the gardens of Alexandria,
where under favourable circumstances they yield olives, but no oil. Vines,
corn, podded plants, and many other products also thrive in this district
in no small abundance" .--- Strabo's description is still applicable at the
present day. The oranges and mandarins, peaches, olives, figs, castes
trait, omegranates, and grapes grown here are much esteemed, and the
beauti ul, rich-coloured red roses of the garden » of the Fame, which
were once so lavishly strewn at the banquets of Cleopatra, still thrive
here. At the station of Medinet tsl-Nita" small phials of utter of roses,
of inferior quality, are frequently offered for sale. Isma'il Pasha devoted
special attention to this favoured part of his dominions. The fields, which
are watered by menu » of wheels of peculiar construction, yield rice, sugar,
cotton, flax, and hemp, besides the usual wreak. The beginning of November is probably the season at which the traveller will obtain the most
distinct idea of the fertile character of the district. . The Inhabitants
are felldhin, or tillers of the soil, and Bednins. To the latter race belong the poor fishermen who inhabit the banks of the Birket el-Farms,
Many of the peasants also call themselves tombs", and the wealthier of
them are generally well mounted.

From. Cairo to elm-Warm (51 M), see p. i. Travellers coming
from Cairo change carriages here; stay of 20 min. in the foreman,
17 min. in the afternoon..

The branch-line to the Faydm rnns towards the W., across
cultivated land, to the village of Abu Rddi, beyond which it traverses a desert tract for 35 min, and then atone: the low and
bleak Libyan chain of hills, reaching its highest point at a level of
190 ft. above the see. We then descend, cross the Bohr elm Warddn,
which flows towards the Bohr Ydsuf from the N., and then the watercourse of eta-Bats (p. 38), and near the station of (19 M) elaAdweh
(69 in), on the right, we again perceive cultivated land. On the
left is a cemetery with the dilapidated tombs of several shdhhs.
Numerous palm-branches are placed by the tombstones as tokens of
affection. On the right snatches an ancient dyke, which once may
have belonged to the embankment of Lake Mum: (p. 40). We
pass the station of cl-Maslab, traverse rich arable land, and soon
reach (23% M.) «
Hewet elm-Fa the'town of the lakeudistrict', situated to
the S. of the site of Crocodilopoliswdrsinoé, the ancient capital of
the province (Hillel do Papodm, foe. daily; with a letter of intro
duction from Cairo quarters may also be obtained at








