Pagan. MEDINET Elie-FA. 273 23:55.. 2. Route. 37
mission-station or at the house of the Italian cure). It contains
about 40,000 inhab., and is a not unpleasing specimen of an Egyptian town. Between the station and the town we observe a peculiar,
undershot sdhiyeh, "or water-wheel driven by the water itself. The
very long covered bazaar contains nothing of special interest. The
traveller, even if unprovided with an introduction, should pay a
visit to the mudir who will protect him from extortion in case of
any difficulty with the owners of horses and others (comp p 31)
A broad arm of the Bohr Ydsuf (p. 35) flows through the middle
of the town The mosque of Knit Bay, on the N side of the town,
now somewhat dilapidated, is the only interesting building of the
kind. It contains numerous antique columns, brought from the
ancient drained, some of which have shafts of polished marble with
Ambit inscription, and Corinthian and other capitals. Below the
mosque, on the bank of the Bohr Ydsuf, are some remains of ancient
masonry. No ancient inscriptions have been discovered here, but
the walls of some of the houses contain fragments which must
have belonged to ancient temples. At the W. and of the town the
Bahr Yfisuf radiates into numerous branches, which water the
country in every direction. The dilapidated mosque of "situated
here forms a picturesque foreground.

To the N. of the town are the extensive ruins of Grooodilopolisa
drained, which has been entirely destroyed. The site is now called
Kdm Flirts. Many antiquities, both of the Roman and the Christian
period, have been found here, including numerous small terracotta
lamps and many thousand fragments of papyri, intermixed with
pieces of parchment.- Most of the papyri are Greek (among them
fragments of Homer, Euripides, Thucydides, also of a Christian
catechetical book), many are Arabic from the 2nd cent. of the Be.
gira down to 04-3 A Hi); and others are in Septic, Pehlevi, Seesaw
nide'uPer-sian, and Meroitic-EthioPian characters Several fragments
in hieratic and hieroglyphic characters, the oldest from the time of
Ramses HI. (about 1300 30), have also been discovered. he the
writings are for the most part tax-papers, it hag been supposed that
they belonged to a tax office of the town of Crocodilepolis, where
old papyri also were used. A large number of the papyri found
here were acquired by Consul Travers for the Berlin Museum, and
even a larger number by Theod. Graf and Amhduke Rainer for the
Austrian Museum of Art and Industry at Vienna. The very extensive cemetery of the town, with its picturesque tombstones, covers
part of the site of the ancient city; the highest of the mounds of
rubbish command a survey of the whole of the Fayihm At the N.
and of the mine, about 1% M. from Medineh, M, Schweinfurth
discovered the remains of a large temple with a pylon, in front of
which is a sitting figure of Amenemha L, the founder of the 12th
Dym, and inside several slabs with the name of Ramses the Great.
A head with Hyksos features, now in the museum net hss










