38 Route 2. BiHAMU. Foydm.

also been found here. According to Mr. Flinders Petrie, the temple
proper, which was 490 ft. wide and had a double colonnade, be.
longs to the 26th Dynasty.

The village of Ethamu, about d M. to the N. of Medineh, was
doubtless once situated on the bank of Ldm Mamie n still contain:
some shapelcss ruins of ancient origin, destitute of inscription, but supposed to be the remains of the pyramids which according to Herodotus
once stood in the lake. They are now called Karat Fenian, or chair of
Pharaoh, and resemble dilapidated altars rising above other fragments of
solid masonry. If they were once pyramids, the greater part of them
must have been removed, as the walls are new but slightly inclined
inwards. Distinct traces of the water in which they once stood are to
be seen on their bases, and they are still surrounded by remains of
walls, the purpose of which is unknown.

In the fields near Ehgig, or Hem, 21/2 M. to the S.W. of Medineh, lies
a fine obelisk, broken into two parts, which must have once been at least
46 n. in height (route to it rough and dirty). Like other obelisks, it is,
horizontally, of oblong rectangular shape, and its summit is rounded.
The inscriptions, which are damaged at many places, inform us that the
monument was erectcdagg Usertesen L, who also founded the obelisk
of Heliopolis (Vol. L, p., and belonged to the same family (12th Dye.)
as Amenemha 111., the founder of the Labyrinth. ~--A visit to Bihamu
and Ebgig is chiefly interesting to archaeologists, and perhaps to bow
nism also.'

Exoonslons. A whole day is required for a visit to the Pyramid
of Hawdroh and the Labyrinth (horse it), donkey 5 fro. The route
lead: at first for 3/4 hr. along the bank of the Barr Tihiuf. The first
village of any importance is Uhdfcb. Our path traverses well cola
tivatcd land with numerous water-wheels. The corn and cotton
fields are shaded by numerous sycamores, lebbeke, palms, and
other mesh About 1/2 hr. from Uhifeh, and beyond two smaller
villages, we reach a bridge of ancient brick masonry. Traversing
the slightly undulating treat a little farther, we reach the Balm
Bela Md ('river Without water'), also called el-Bats, a deep ehan-u
nel, extending in a wide curve, and terminating near the NE. end
of the Birket eI-Kuran (p. 43). In winter the water, which tricklet down from its lofty banks, forms a few scanty pools. At the
bottom of the channel grow reeds and tamarisks. The S. bank
rises at places nearly perpendicularly to a height of 26 m, so that
the sequence of the strata of the soil is distinctly observable. We
new second the plateau (the highest in the province, 88 fi. above
the sea level) on which lies Hawarst clufiagab or Howdrct etaMahta, a considerable village, with a mosque (reached in 13/4111".
from Medinet eluFaydm). The traveller may apply to the Shékhuela
Beled (prefect of the village) for a guide to the pyramid of Herrera.
If the water is high, and the canals have to be avoided, we have
to make a circuit of nearly 2 hm, to the Labyrinth, but by riding
through the water, where necessary, it may be leached in% hone

The longer route is preferable, as it passes several relics of
antiquity. A little beyond the village rises the bridge of gastritis

a ch--Aguni, the ten buttresses of which rest on a foundation of mas"'1 sire stone. We continue to ride along an ancient e and








