Fayam. LABYRINTH. 2. Route. 39

thus reach the Eamonta structure, which consists of a terrace of
six carefully jointed steps of large and. well--hows. blocks, but bears
no inscription whatever. We cross the Bohr ct~ Warden, which
now intersects the ruins near the Pyramid of Hawarah, and which
is sometimes called by the Arabs Bohr clmMelckh or Bohr ssh-Sharla,
in, river of the East. On the E. side lies the mass of buildings,
which, according to Lepsius, was probably the Labyrinth (see below). In order to obtain a survey of these interesting ruins the
traveller is recommended to ascend at once the Pyramid td Ea,
wAm. This consists of unburnt bricks of Nile mud mixed with straw
(VOL L, p. 373, and, when its sides were perfect, covered an area
of upwards of 18 sq. yards. It has been ascertained that the nun
clone of the structure is a natural mass of rock, 39 it. in height. The
dilapidated summit is easily reached in a few minutes by a flight of
well-worn snaps. The entrance to the pyramid, on the S. side, was
discovered in 1889 by Mr. Flinders Petrie. The tomb chamber
is 22 ft. long, 8 ft. wide, and 6 ft. high; it was covered with three
large slabs of stone and contained two sarcophagi, one of them of
polished sandstone without inscription, and fragments of an alaa
baeter vase with the name of Amenemha HI. The chamber was
filled with water to a depth of 3 ft.

Towards the S. we observe a congeries of chambers and passages
of unburnt bricks, bounded by the Baht csh-Shethi, and pronounced
by Lepsius to be the right side of the Labyrinth, and the only part
of it which is to some extent preserved. On the other side of the
Pyramid there was doubtless a similar collection of rooms which has
now disappeared; and several other structures beyond them, of which
traces still remain, must have once existed there. The whole Labyrinth must have been in the shape of a horseshoe. Between the wing
of the Labyrinth which still exists, and that which has disappeared,
list an extensive Space strewn with broken pottery, in the middle
of which are large fragments of a magnificent ancient temple. The
base of the shaft of a small papyrus column, and a capital of the same
order, both in the red stone of decade, with sculptured stalks and
foliage, are worthy of notice. Some blocks disinterred here bearing
the name of Amenemha m. haw main been covered with sand.
Several large blocks of limestone are also observed in the middle of
this large court of the Labyrinth. The inscriptions are almost ontirely destroyed, but faint traces of painting, and the symbols « row

(as) and (u), are still recognisable. From the traces still ILT
isting the whole structure would appear to have occupied an area
of 8890 sq. wish, and the large inner court an area of about 60 acres.

The Ancient Labyrinth. According to Brugscb, the Greek name Labys
rinthos, which has been differently interpreted, is derived from'erpa', i. e. the'Temple of the mouth of the Lake'. The up
acriptions found here by Lepsius prove that it was founded by Amem
emhe III. of the 12th Dynasty. Herodotus declares that th Lab?"









