40 Route 2. LABYRINTH. I'ayom.

ninth, which was afterwards reckoned as'one of the wonders of the
world", was so vast as to surpass all the buildings of the Greeks taken
together and even the Pyramids themselves. For the best description
we are indebted to Strobe, who visited the Labyrinth in person. He
am: "There aim the Labyrinth here, a work as important as the
Pyramids, adjoining which is the tomb of the king who built the Labyrinth. After advancing about 30-40 stadia beyond the first entrance of
the canal, there is a table-shaped surface, on which rise a small town
and alvast palace, consisting of as many royal dwellings as there were
formerly homes. There is also an e mil number of ham, bordered with
columns and adjoining each other, al being in the same row, and forming one building, like a long wall having the halls in front of it. The
entrances to the halls are opposite the wall. In front of the entrances
are long and numerous passages which have winding paths running
through them, so that the ingress and egress to each hall is not
practicable to a stranger without a guide. It is a marvellous fact that
each of the ceilings of the chambers consists of a single stone, and
also that the passages are covered in the some way with single slabs
of extraordinary size, neither wood nor other building material having
been employed. On ascending the roof, the height of which is inconsiderable, as there is only one story, we observe a stone surface consisting of large slabs. Descending again, and looking into the halls, we may
observe the whole series borne by tWenty-seven monolithic columns. The
walls also are constructed of stones of similar size. At the end of this
structure, which is more than a stadium in length, is the tomb. cousin.
Ing "a square pyramid, each side of which is four plethra (m it.) in
length, and of equal height. The deceased, who is buried here, is called
lsmandes. It is also asserted that so many palaces were built, because it
was the custom for all the names, represented by their magnates, with
their priests and victims, to assemble here to od'er sacrifice and gifts to the
gum, and to deliberate on the most important concerns. Each name
then took possession of the hall destined for it. Sailing about a hundred
stadia beyond this point, we next reach the town of drained", ewe Thin
description of Strobe is confirmed by the contents of two papyri, one of
which is in the museum of Giseh, the other in private possession (Er.
Hood). The deities of 36 districts are enumerated here... 24 of whom belong to Upper Egypt, 20 to Lower Egypt, and 22 to the Faydm.

It is very doubtful whether we should consider these buildings
of Nile bricks as remains of the ancient Labyrinth, or rather as
tombs. Certainly nothing is left that recalls in any way the spleen
door of the old'wonder of the world', Except some blocks of limestone, nothing remains of the extensive structures once erected
here, save the pyramid'at the end of the labyrinth'.

To the N. of the pyramid Mr. Flinders Petrie discovered some mummy
coffins with carefully painted heads (new in London). Of still greater
value are the portraits found at eldtabopdt, 13 hi. to the NE. of New
ginet oeil'yiimt which were purchased and brought to Europe by M. Then
ore ra.

Lake Maria. The object of Lake Merits, which has long since been
dried up, was to receive the superfluous water in the case of too high
an inundation, and to distribute its contents over the holds when the
overflow was insufficient. Strabo describes Lake Moeris in the following terms:'Owing to its size and depth it is capable of receiving the
superabundanee of water during the inundation, without overflowing the
habitation, and crops, but later, when the water subsides, and after the
lake ha: given up its excess through one of its two months, both it and
the canal retain water enough for purposes of irrigation. This is accomplished by natural means, but at both ends of the canal there are also
lock--gates, by means of which the engineers can regulate the influx
and efflux of the water.' The lock-gate, which in ancient times admitted the water conducted from the bills by the canal. to the lake,









