Fa m. EL.ayiuthi. 2. Route. 41

' was probably situated near the modern eZ-Lahan (see below), the name of
which is supposed to be derived from the old Egyptian:'mr-hum' or'lehm', its.'the mouth of the lake', and the site of which was probably
once occupied.hy the town of Ptalemnm.

There is a difference of opinion as to the Situation and Form of the
Ancient Lots.. Linant-Bey, arguing from the eonaiderable difference of
level between the two lakes, maintains that the Birket oldies-fin (Lake
of the Home, p. M) could never have formed part of Lake Weris, as was
formerly supposed, and he assigns to the latter a much smaller area than
was attributed to it under the earlier theory. Placing it farther to the
Bah, nearer to the Labyrinth and ai-rash:, he makes its boundary-line
run towards the s.sw, uf 11e6tmstIFsytim to the Birket shadowy, and
intersect the men of sacks Ahmed, where the ancient height of the water, which far exceeds the level attained in modern times, has left its
traces; it then leads to Kalmmha mm to m. R. to Da and then to
the E. and SE. to Dimisfipioeh, follows the embankment of Httawdnsh,
and passes 122mm ez'gawr nu: ma bridge of el-than (see below). Hence the
boundary leads by Dimmo towards the NE. to sum, and thence to the W.
to Imam (p. 38):, then again Sty me l, and thus returns ta Medina. « mu-A somewhat fatiguing journey of 2-3 days will enable the tmw
eller to complete this circuit of the bed of the lake, which is now dried
up. Recently, however, Mr. Fiops Whilehnuae, relying upon the great
circumference assigned by Herodotus (u, IN) to the lake, of 3600 stadia
(reduced by Linant to 360) or about 385 hi. (Pliny says 230 31.), and upon
measurements made by himself on the spot, ascribes a considerably larger
area to the lake than Linant, and maintains that it extended on the S, it is not improbable that in ancient times nearly the
whole of the Faydrn could be laid under water, so that even the Birket
ehhnrdn belonged to Luke lmn'i, but that the entire system was meant
for the watering of the Faydrn alone and not of the Nils may or the
Delta. Considering that the bed of the lake must annually have been raised
by the deposit of File mud, it follows, that as soon as worn as the raising of the
embankment » and the removal of the mud were discontinued, the lake
must have become onseryieeable, especially after the lock-gates at elLahiln fell to decay each opening of which, as Diodorus informs us,
twat th) menu (is. about 1135033). The discharge of the superfluous
water probably run through the Bohr Bold bid, which has already been
mentioned (1153), or through the dei Neel-ch (p. 42), both of which
fall into the Birket elfihnriin. The ancient conjecture, that the latter
discharged part of its water into me gammy (or, as Herodotus says, the
'Libyan Syrte'), was not an unnatural one.

A visit to the Pyramid of el-Latin or mobile. is only interesting to
those who are desirous of convincing themselves of the truth of Linant's
hypothesis, and to make the circuit of the boundaries of the old bed of
the lake (see above). The pyramid, which is built of Nun bricks, may be
ranked from Erawhret el-gaeah in 4-5, or from the Labyrinth in M ham.
it has been recently been opened by Fraser, The discovery of an alabaster altar with the name of Usertesen II. readers it probable that the
pyramid was built by that monarchy A smaller pyramid lies to the RE.

he remains of the ancient embankments, which were tolerably well
preserved in the time of m Khams, are not without attraction Those
who are interested in hydraulic engineering should also inspect the entrance of the Bohr Ydsuf into the Fayfim.

About 1/2 hi. to the E. of the pyramid of cl-Lamn, Mr. Flinders Petrie discovered a temple in 1889, and close beside it the ruins of the town
2la-traerteseewhotep, now called Kellen. The latter was founded by Usertesen II. (12th Bye.) for the labourers on his pyramid. Among the minim
found here were pottery, flint and upper implements of the 12th Dyn.,
numerous papyri of the some period, a statuettc of SbSebek (13th Dyed,
a wooden stamp of Apepi and a large wooden door of Qsorkon 1.

Guest, "l: M. to me A & W. of Illahdn and close to the edge of the
desert, owed its origin to Tutmes m., who built a temple there. Many
of the inhabitants were foreigners. Mr. Petrie discovered he nu














