42 Route 2. ABUKSAH. Fayam.

of pottery of the time of Tutankhamon and Ramses 11..., resembling the
most ancient potsherds found at hiycente The coffin of Amentursha,
discovered here. is new at Oxford The pottery bears Eggtian stamps,
but mo Imam of the Cyprian, Phcenician, and other alpha eta

Birket el-Kuran and Irate Karen (tent, horses, provisions, etc.,
comp. p. 34) The RAILWAY from Medinet eleayfirn via Scum and
Abu Gemini: to (15M) Abraham (see below) and thence to Sen-: hair and (71/2 MO Time }: is used almost exclusively for the conveyance of sugar- « cane to the manufacturies of the Khedive. Traw.
ellers going by railway (one train daily from Medineh'to Abuksa,
starting about noon, and performing the journey in about i hr.)
must take horses with them for the continuation of their journey.
The following routes are all practicable, but the third is to be
preferred: m
(A) We proceed by land via Nesleh (where boats must be ordered
for the passage of the lake) to Kerr Kordn; then by water to
Dimeh, and again by water to the'8 bank of the lake, situated, m
the latitude of Seeker, which lies about 4 M. inland. The horses
should be sent on from Kasr Kurds); to the lake (unless the somewhat refractory guides refuse to obey), in order that we may ride
to Senhdr, and thence to Medinet el-Wythe" Four or five days are
required for the excursion; the points of interest are mentioned in
the third route The road from Nezleh (see below) to East Karim
(4 hrs) leads through the desert, past the remains of a small temple,
called by the Arabs Irate el-Bendt, or'Maidens' Castle'.

(A) if the traveller renounce }; Dimeh and liner Kurdn, and is
satisfied with the apart to be obtained in the Baht el-dei, he may
easily make the excursion in 21/2-3 days. On the first day the mute
shirt: the, railway (see above) to (2 hrs.) Santa, - it then leads
through a plantation of opuntia, the growth of which is so gigantic
that it almost resembles a forest, and across a sandy tract overgrown
with tamarisks to (2 hrs.) Am", situated on a hill, and commanding a fine survey of the lake and the Libyan mountains. At
the N. base of the hill near the railway station (see above) is a sugar
manufactory, superintended by a Frenchman, who awards 3 him! re.
caption to traveller; We now proceed to the S.W. across meadows,
and through a somewhat marshy district, to (21/2 hrs.) Abolish, situated clone to Nedeht (The traveller is recommended to spend the
night in a tent rather than among the Beaming ») Next day we follow the valley of the Bohr ct » Wadi (or Bohr Nested), which is
bounded by large mud-hills, to the lake (21/211133, where we spend
the middle of the day. (The numerous dead fish on the bank of the
Take render its proximity unpleasant; boats are to be had from the
Beduins.) In the evening we return to Absheh, and on the third
day to Mcdhat el-Fsytsrm

(3) Four days at least are required for the somewhat longer
route via Senhdr and the lake to hear-Kurds, if the traveller wishes
to visit Dimeh, and shoot on the lake. The route first skirts the





