ratpltm spoadht. 2. Route. 43

railway and the villa of MaNntil Bey, and then passes the tomb of
a shékh, where a draught of good water is offered to the traveller
by a danish. A number of dry ditches must be crossed, and also
several canals, where the traveller on horseback will hardly escape
from wetting his { am when the water is high; if he rides on a
donkey, he should get the Arabs to carry him and his saddle across.
The fields which we pass are remarkably well cultivated, and the
eye rests with pleasure on trees of various kinds, including fine
olives in the gardens, with hedges of cactus. The vegetation is most
luxuriant in the neighbourhood of Fidmin, a village picturesquely
situated on a slope, but inhabited by a thievish population. The
Baler ct--ream ]: ('mill river'), one of the broader canals, must he
crossed here. Beyond this point the country is, at places, green and
well irrigated, and at others dry and sterile. One part of the route,
which is flanked by luxuriant gardens of olives, pomegranates, and
figs, is very muddy. After a ride of fully three hours we reach the
looks and the bridge Kondtir Heron. The large body of water of
the canal, which is conducted from the Bohr Yfisuf, here falls into
a channel, which, with many ramifications, convoys it to the fields
of gen";

The large village of 5mm (rail. station, see p. 42) lies on the
border of the second plateau of the province. Those who Visit m,
wbrs (p. 38) reach the first plateau, while the second is crossed on
the way to Senhdr; the third lies at our feet when looking down on
the Birket sin-Karon from the great Kern, is. the ruin-strewn hill
to the N. of the village. The handsome house of the Shékh elm
Beled odors good. accommodation, and even quarters for the night.
The traveller should make a bargain here for a boat with the shiikh
of the fishermen. About 30 fr. for the day, and a bahshish for the
rowers (of whom 6~8 are necessary for speed), are demanded.

tysnhtr stands on the with of an ancient, and not unimportant,
town, of which large heaps of ruins still remain. Roman walls are
traceable in many places. A large building has recently been excavated by the peasants for the sake of obtaining the hard bricks
of which it is built, but part of it has already been removed. No
remains of columns or inscriptions have been met with.

From'sphilr to the Birket eviurdn takes about 11/2 hr. The route
leads through sugarvplantations. We reach the lake near the peninsula
known as ei-Gcrtrsh, on which stands a heap of ruins. A short distance
to the W. are the scanty remains of sbflammdm. The traveller, after
having ridden to the lake, should not forget to order his horses, which
return to genmr. to await him for the return-journey at the spot where
he has quitted them, or to order them to meet him in good time on the
bank of the lake by Nesleh (see p. MO.

The Birkot sis-gum ('lake of the horns') owes its name to
its shape, which resembles that of slightly bent cows' home. It
measures 34 M. in length, and, at its broadest part, is about 81/2 M.
wide. It is situated on the some level as the Mediterranean, and
its depth avenge. 13 it. The greenish water is slightly breykith



