44 Route 2, mg }: pmii. Pagans.

(scarcely fit for drinking), and abounds in fish, some of which
are very palatable, The right of fishing is lot by government, and
the whole of the fishermen dwelling on the banks of the lake are
in the service of the lessee, who receives one-half of the catch.
The boats (merheb) are very simply constructed, being without
deck. or mast; the traveller must take up his quarters on the flooring in the stern; none of the boats have sails, for, as the fish always go in the same direction as the wind, the fishermen have to
row against the wind in order to catch them. Numerous pelicans,
wild duck, and other water-fowl, frequent the lake. The banks
are extremely sterile; on the N. side are barren hills of considerable
height. In the middle of the lake rises a mass of rock, resembling
a table, and serving as a landmark. Near the & bank, from E. to
W., lie the villages of Refs Tamiysh, Samar, gopher, Abelson, Boshnni, and Add Goneheh; the ruins of Dimeh are situated on the N.
bank, but there are no other villages of importance. A the S.W.
end of the lake is the promontory of Khashm Kham, overgrown
with tamarisks and. reeds, the Masks of which afford good landingplacee. Ascending thence across the desert, we reach the temple in
about 11/4 hours. The fishermen object to pass the night on the
bank in the neighbourhood of Kasr Karim, being afraid of the Be(luins and the'Afrit' (evil spirits).

finer 3mm is a tolerably well preserved temple, probably of
the Roman, or, at the earliest, of the Ptolemaic period. Before
reaching it we observe numerous traces of an ancient town,
which has new disappeared. The ground is strewn with blocks
of harm stone, burnt bricks, broken pottery, and fragment » of
glass. A circular foundation wall indicates the site of an ancient
cistern, while other walls seem to have belonged to vineyards. The
wane of the temple consist of carefully hewn block » of hard limestone. This temple, like almost all um shrine: in the oases, was
dedicated to the ram--headed Ammon--Khnum, as is proved by the
only two figures of this deity which still exist. They stand opposite
to each other at the highest part of the posterior wall of the upper
story of the open roof.

The temple is 20 yds. in width across the facade, and 29 yds. in length.
The entrance, facing the E., is approached by a lofty and carefully constructed platform, it yds. in length, forming u foreman, on the 8. side
of which me; a. tower. Adjoining the
fagade of the temple, to the W. of the entrance door, rises a massive,
semicircular projection, resembling the half of a huge column. On the
lower floor are the apartments of the temple which were dedicated to
worship, divided into a triple preacher, and leading to the Sekos or sent »
teary. In the first three rooms the ground slopes down towards the sanctuary, which, built in the form of a cells, mom the third room of the
prosekos, and (as in the case of other temples) was divided into three
small rooms at the back. The sanctuary is flanked by two narrow pap
Sagan, each of which is ndjoined by three rooms. The rooms of the prosekos also have adgscent chambers from which we may enter the sellers,

or ascend by two ights of steps to the upper floor with its different apartments, and thence to the roof, whence we obtain an extapgive view of the





