Feeder. DiMEH. 2. 9, Route. 45

remains of the ancient city, of the lake. and the desert. Each gate of this
curious building is surmounted by a winged disc of the sun; and over
the doors leading into the second and third rooms of the prosekos and
into the sanctuary, instead of the ordinary concave cornice. there in u
miss ot "mu shaken, which, with their outstretched heads and bench
ing neon, together form a kind of cornice. The mum of several travellers- are engraved on the stone of the first room, including those of Paul
Lucas, R, Jomard, Bong d'Anville Cancelle' Bellier, Burton,
Belushi, Hyde, and Paul Martin. user eerie has also been visited by
Lepsius. There are no ancient inscriptions remaining.

To the E. of the large temple are situated two smaller Roman temples,
in tolerable preservation, the larger of which, situated 300 paces from the
smaller. is not without interest. Its walls (18 it. by 19 th) consist of
good burnt bricks, and its substructures of solid stone; the cells terminates in a niche resembling an apse; on each of the side-walls are
two halt-columns, which. as the fragments lying on the ground show,
belong to the Ionic order. There are also some less important ruins
covering an extensive area, but nothing has been found among them
dating from an earlier period than the Roman The construction of the
walls, the architectural forms, and many coins found here are Roman;
and name of those small relics of the period of the Pharaohs, which are
usually found so abundantly among the ruins of Egypt. have been discovered here. This was perhaps the site of the ancient Dissector, a town
which probably sprang up on the ruins of a Roman military station,
situated on the extreme western side of Egypt. On the outskirts of the
mine are walls which perhaps belonged to gardens; there must also have
been once an a ueduct for the purpose of supplying the inhabitants and
their garden: w th water.

From Kay Kuran to Dimeh is one day's journey. Dimeh is
situated opposite to the point at which we approach the lake from
fysnhiir, The scanty ruins on the S. bank of the lake (Editions;
mama, ate), are not worthy of a visit; but the ruins of Dimeh, although no inscriptions have been found there, present some attraction. A street, 400 yds. in length, formerly embellished with figures
of lions, lentil m a platform on which an important temple once
stood. The numerous blocks scattered about here, resembling millstones, and apparently artificially rounded, are discovered on closer
inspection to be of natural formation. The paved court was surnreunded by a brick wall, and the temple itself contained several
apartments; a peristyle, with columns new in ruins, led to the entrance. Notwithstanding the imperfect state of the ruins, they
suffice to prove, that a town of very considerable importance, per »

hope the ancient Bacchis, once stood here.

3. From Aseidt to Belidneh.

Comp. May, p. 8.

107 M. Sumner: upstream in 7 bra, downstream in 61/2 hrs. The
mail-steamer stops for the night at Girgeh, both in ascending and descending. The length of the Duananirnn Vernon depends upon the wind.
With a favourable wind it takes about twice as long as the steamboat
voyage; to Some a bra, thence to Girgeh 6 hrs, and thence to Bet-tench
3 hrs, in all about 13 hrs.'

The voyage from Ame; to Akhmim leads through an extremely
fertile and wellwcultirated district. Well--tilled fields, broader on the

d

W. than on the K, adjoin both banks of the river, d e shaded









