46 3. Route ABUTIG. From may

by fine palms and Nile acacias, especially near the riverside villages.
Here, as in most of Egypt, large quantities of pigeons are kept by
the peasants, chiefly for the sake of their droppings, which form the
only manure used in the fields, the dung of the cattle being dried
and used as fuel. Large pigeon-houses, not unlike pylons, are
visible in all the villages, and huge flocks of pigeons are seen
wheeling in the air or settling like a dark cloud on the fields. Most
of these pigeons are of the common grey species, and attain a con-siderable size, but many pretty little reddish-grey turtle doves are
Alan seen The traveller is at liberty to about these birth, which in
the form of a pigeon-pie with olives form a most acceptable addition to his larder, but he should exercise this liberty with discretion
and not rob the harmless fetish of too many of his feathered friends.
The pigeons really consume more than they produce, so that their
encouragement by the fellihin is rightly regarded as a serious
mistake in their husbandry.

Those who are interested in Egyptian agriculture may utilise
the opportunity of an unfavourable wind to go ashore here. Formerly convent after convent occupied this district, and the gardens
of the monks, according to Mahrizi, made it possible for the traveller to walk continually in the shade. A few convents still remain,
such as the Dér era-Rifeh (W. bank), on the slope of the Libyan
hills, 8 M. to the S. W. of Assidt, with the tomb of Tutus, son of
Rahotcp and commander of the archers, and other ancient Egyptian
graves. The inscriptions prove that Shaswhotsp, the capital of the
Hypselite nome, lay in this vicinity, and it may perhaps be identified with the modern Sketch. Of the Christians who resided here in
the 11th cent. we are told that they spoke Greek as well as Coptic.
Interesting Coptic MSS. may still reward the searcher in all these
convents.

The traveller need not break his journey between Assifit and
Akhmim, as even the antiquarian will derive little profit from the
scanty remains on this part of the river. Worm, nearly opposite
nosing perhaps occupies the site of the ancient Contralyoopotis. In
the Gabei Rolrhdm, to the E. of the villages of f and
Notofeh, is an alabaster quarry.

15 M. Butts or Abutig (steamboat and mail station), an agricultural town on the W. bank with Nile- « boats, lies in the ancient Hypselite come. The
present name is probably derived from the conversion of the ancient
Egyptian name Hauabcti into the similarlyusounding Greek name of
Antique } (Apotheke; Coptic Tapothyke), i. e. Storehouse, an admirable name for the chief town of a district so fertile in grain.
Among the Hellenes it was generally known as Abotic.

At Beddri, on the E. bank, 2 M. from the river, are some rude
reck-tombs without inscriptions. On the W. bank follow the mail
steamboatmstations Ssdfsh and Temeh.







