to Bohemia. sin EL-Knsla. 3. thc. 47

By following the Arab hills, we reach, 51/: large quarries in the hard limestone rock and some tombs of
the old empire with roughly out calyx-capitals and half-offered sculptures.
Similar tombs are found at Shrink { inter and Be'r. a little to the SE.
Near Homlych, in the steep side of the rocky hill, are three grottoes,
one above another, containing ancient tombs with inscriptions and representations, belonging to the royal officials Afa and linker. In antiquity

the place was named K's-then: se (Upper { they see below).



141/2 M. 36.11 tri-Rebus situated in the plain on the E. bank,
is surrounded by a ring of hills, containing rock-tombe with sculptures and large quarries with some demotic representations. The
few inscriptions refer to the old empire. Stamped bricks found
in the mounds of debris belonged to the buildings of the 18th Dynasty. The quarries contain ornaments and representations of the
Roman period. Kin elmKebir stands on the site of the ancient
Antwopolis, capital of the Antmopolitan name, in which the hero
Animus and other deities were worshipped. An inscription found
here reads: Armies not role coercion; Stole,'to Animus and his
divine colleagues'. In ancient Egyptian it was called the'Nome
of the two Gode", probably in commemoration of the contest between Seth and Horns. According to the myth Amalia, son of
Poseidon and Gas, was a giant of immense strength, whom Osiris,
on his journey through the world to introduce the vine and the
culture of grain, appointed his ricegerent over the land bordering
on Ethiopia and Libya. Busiris was governor of the land to the E,,
Antaeus used his giant's strength to overcome and slay strangers,
and Hercules had to try conclusions with him when he landed in
Libya to Meal the name of Geryon.' After a violent struggle, Hercules succeeded in strangling his huge opponent. The deciding
contest between Typhon (Seth) and Osiris, or rather Horns, son
and representative of Osiris, took place, according to the version of
the legend adopted by Diodorus, at Antmopolis, although the in »
scriptions, and notably the great Horus tent of Brits, relate that the
struggle raged from one end of the Nile valley to the other. The



Egyptian name of lien was M g } To. be, or'town of the

lofty mountain } whence is derived the Coptic Thou. It was also

a
known as

Egyptian mountain-god (frets out z: - mountain), whom the Greeks
compared with their Dionysus. A representation of Antaus mentioned by Wilkinson, in which he appears with his head, like Helios,
surrounded with rays, and accompanied by the goddess Nephthys,
has recently been rediscovered by Golenischefi in the NE angle



