48 Route 3. sonic. From Again;

of the hill behind Kin st-Koh. Two of the piers of the grotto in
which the representation occurs, bear pictures of Animus.
' At the beginning of the present century an interesting temple stood
on the site of the old town of which the last column was washed away
by the Nile in 1821. Joiner, who described this temple during the French
Expedition, when the water already lapped its foundations, foretold its
fate. The temple was dedicated by Ptolemy Philometor and his wife
Cleopatra to Antares and was restored by Marcus Aurelius Antoninus and
his colleague Verne (164 All). This information was conveyed by a
double inscription, in Greek and in hieroglyphics, over the portal,, 1 (Ede) probably
denoted the name of the town. The temple was built of limestone and
was at least 22.5 n. long, 52 ft. wide, and 51 it. high. In entrance faced
the river. The 18 columns which were arranged in 3 rows, were 37 it.
high, with a diameter of 271/4 fit, and ended in palm-deaf capitals, Is the
gigantic blocks that Jomard found on the ground were really parts of
the ceiling, they exceeded in size those of Karnak, which now excite
our astonishment. One of them was 32 ft. long, wax. high, and w. n.
Wick, and must have weighed at least 48 tons.

To the S. of Kan el-Kebir the Nile makes ahead to the W. and
forms an island by dividing into two branches. On the W. arm (W.
bank), to the N. of the island, lies Kdu eb-Gharhi (W. lien), the
seat of a rebellion in 1865, which hadimportant consequences for
all the inhabitants of Upper Egypt and about which the Oriental
facility in forming tradition has already woven numerous legendary
The felldhin scarcely venture to utter the name (Ahmed Tayib) of
the hero of this uprising, but speak of him with bated breath as a
Messiah, who will one day return. He is said to be still living, in
Abyssinia. High up on the S. side of the hill of Kan are some
more rock--tombs..

121/2 M. 3am, on the W. bank, is the station for the town of
15mm, situated 2 M. inland, with 3000 inhab. and a frequented
cattle-market,,

On the E. bank, a little higher up, rises the Gebel 8htkh elHartdeh, with ancient quarries and (high up) tombs hewn in the
rock, the openings of which are visible from the river. The material
of which the temple of Antmopolis was built was procured in the
large quarries on the S. side of the mountain, and consists of a
hard, fine-grained, grey shell-limestone, which smells unpleasantly
when rubbed but admits of a splendid polish. - The next steam"
boat stations are cl-Meroghdt and Showdowns, both on the W. bank.
A large market is held in the latter every Saturday. On the E. bank
of the stream, which here encloses several islands, are some rock: tombs, without inscriptions.'

261/2 M, Snug (Edict dtt Nil, on the river-bank; British and
American consular agents), on the W. bank, has recently become
the seat of the mudir in place of Girgeh and contains a very handsome governmentwbuild'ing. The Mudiriyeh contains 521,413 inhah.





1- For details of the revolt of Ahmed Teyib and its suppression, see
Lady Duff Gordon's Letters from Egypt (London 1%. 1875),





