to Beltdnch. AKHMiM. 3. Route. 49

and is 650 sq. M: in extent. The Canal ofdohdg, which leads hence
to Assidt, hoops to the W. and is intended to convey the water of
the rising Nile as far as possible towards the Libyan Desert.

On this canal lies Elijah (life), the ancient Aphroditopolis, so named
from the sandals (tab) made out of the skin of Seti. About 2 M. from Etfeh
is the Red Convent, no » at Airman, also called Der doe Beast. Those who
wish to visit the Red Convent and the similar White Convent (one of the
regular excursions of the passengers by the'four weeks steamer) may
him 15305 at Sohag and ride via Banana towards the Libyan Desert. The
old church of the convent, a basilica with care and aisles, is a very
ancient structure of brick, with elaborate capitals and a richly articulated
apse. The outer walls, decreasing in thickness towards me top and the
concave cornice above the portal, are interesting forltheir reminiscence of
ancient Egyptian art. Abe Bishai, the founder of the convent is said by
Wansleb to have been a penitent rubber, and he afterwards acquired such
a reputation for sanctity that, according to Makrici, 3000 monks placed
themselves under his care The recluse after whom the White Convent
(Dtr el-Abyad or Der Abe Sounder") was named, is stated to have been
one of his pupils It lies at the foot of the mountains, farther to the
S.., E and may perhaps be rather called a Christian village than a convent,
as husbands, wives, and children live here in families. The walls of the
church are built of harm stone, probably taken from the adjacent ruins
of mama WhNa named), dating from the mmmm and Roman imperial periods. It dates at latest from the 5111 cent. and is a basilica with
nave and aisles The columns vary in height and thickness, and the
capitals are partly of later date. The chancel ends in three vaulted specs
The 1111901113 are adorned with poor frescoes, and the other decorations are
also wretched. . In the hills to the W of the White Convent are a few
late rock- tombs, one of which, according to the inscription, is that of
Ermine, son of Archibius.

61/2 M. Akhmim, a steamboat and mail station on the E. bank,
also reached from Sohig by a shorter land-route, is a thriving little
town with about 10,0001nheb, including 1000 Christians, some
of whom are Roman Catholics, with a chapel of their own. The
weekly market on Wed. is much frequented, and the bazaar is wellstocked. The numerous cotton mills produce the cloth for the blue
shirts of the fellihln and for the long shdla (pi. shdldt), or shawls
with fringes, which the poorer classes wear on state occasions and
for protection against cold. These articles, which have been made
here since the time of Strobe, are extraordinarily cheap. Akhmim
Manila on the site of Khemmis or Persepolis, generally held to be the
most ancient town on the Nile, though this honour probably belongs
to the venerable This-Abydos, on the W. bank (p. 53). The deity
specially venerated here was the form of Amman Generate: known
as Amman Rheum, also called at a later date Min, an appellation
formed by dropping the Khem and abbreviating the Amen. Thus
it is called 211111;, he. belonging to Min. For a figure of this deity,
who appears in the most ancient texts, see Baedeker's Lower Egypt,
p.137. Diodorus, who among other classical writers gives us much
information about KhemmisnPanopolis, calls it Xenon), whence
proceed the Coptic Sharia and the Arabic Ehbmim or Akhmim. Its

profane name on the monuments is Ape.
Herodotus (11,91) distinguishes the citizens of Khemmis as the only
Egyptians who favoured Greek customs and relates that they (33

Essences s Upper Egypt









