50 Route 3. From Ania;

temple to Perseus, worshipped him with Hellenic rites and held games
in his honour. The citizens slain ed Perseus as a native of their town
and told the garrulons Helicarnassian that he had visited Khemmis, when
on his way to Libya in pursuit of the Gorgon's head, and had recognised
them as his kinsmen. A statue of him stood in the temple. From time
to time the hero revisited Khemmis, leaving, as a sign of his presence,
his sandals, which were two elle long; the finding of these was considered a portent of good fortune. The festival of pole-climbing, celebrated in honour of Khem, probably suggested his identification with the
Greek Pan. m it is obvious that Perseus has been confused with Horns,
the destroyer of Typhonbeth. Among the various forms assumed by the
'Libyan Monster' in his long battle with Horns was that of a dragon or
serpent, while Horus, like Perseus, was supported by wings in his encounter, hence the mistake of Herodotus. In any case he is excusable
for seeking in Egypt the home of Persons, whose genealogy may be traced
back to lo,, It is an interesting fact that a later author states that the
Person tree was first planted in Egypt by Perseus. As no goat-footed
deities have been so far discovered in the Egyptian me, it is somewhat
difficult to explain how Khem came to be identified with Palm, unless on
account of his Priapian characteristics. The Pam and Buy" at Khemmis
first received and disseminated the news of the death of Osiris and hence,
says Plutarch, the sudden dread and confusion of a multitude is called
panic. Akhmim is thus the true home of Panic Fear. A white bull and a
black cow were sacred to Khem. He appears in the triad along with the
child Horns and Isis Sekhet, surnamed tarps. (trepha), whence the Greeks
may have formed the name Triptsis Trypmmm was also a cognomen of
some of the queens of the Ptolemaic line.

Khemmis still flourished in the Roman period, and its ancient
and famous temple was finally completed in the 12th year of Trajan.
After Christianity established itself here, the vicinity of Panopolis
became crowded with convents. Nestorius, Bishop of Constantinople, who had been banished to the oasis of Hibeh (Khdrgeh,
Egypt. Heb, p. 352) on account of his disbelief in the divine
motherhood of the Virgin Mary, was attached there by the plundering Blemmyes, and carried captive into the Thebaid, .where he
surrendered himself to the prefect of Panopolis, to avoid a charge
of wilful flight. He died in PanopoliSwAkhmim. Even after the
conquest of Egypt by lslam, the temple of the'great town" of
Akhmim was, as Ahulfeda and other Arabs relate, among the most
important remains of the days of the Pharaohs. Edrisi gives the
following account of it:'At Akhmim we see the building called the
Barbe (as. Perpa, Septic for temple), which the first Hermes erected
before the flood..... (of many ancient temples) that of Akhmim
is the most enduring and also the most remarkable for the beauty
of its sculpture. In truth we find represented in it not a few stars
only, but also various arts and artists, along with numerous inscriptions. The building lies in the midst of Akhmim'. Since this
account a great part of the town must have vanished, as the temple
ruins new lie outside it, to the N. They are neither extensive nor
beautiful, but are of interest to the savant, because they belonged,

f Danae } the mother of Persons, was the daughter of Acrisins, son
of Am, son of Lynceus and Hypermnestra. Lynceus was the son of
Aigyptos, and Hy ermnestra was the daughter of Banana, from whom
the line runs up t rough Bales, Libya, and Epaphos (Apia) to In.





