to Beliduch. one unwrap. 3. Route. 51

as the tmove-mentioned Greek inscription informs us, to the old
temple of Pan, who is here represented in an ithyphallic form. Ala
most all the inscriptions are rapidly becoming effaced, and the same
fate is overtaking a circle divided into twelve parts and supposed to
be intended for the Zodiac. Of the second temple of Khemmis,
which Herodotus describes as dedicated to Perseus, the only remains are a few stones of the 18th Dynasty and some scanty fragments of a building of the Ptolemaic and Roman period. These are
reached by the water when the Nile overflows its banks and are
gradually being swept away.

In 1884 bloopers discovered an extensive NeeeopRit adjoining a Coptic
monastery among the mountains to the NE. of Akhmim. Thousands of
mummies have been taken thence and some of them were sent to Europe.
A visit to this necropolis is well worth undertaking. The best plan is
to secure the company of Khalil-Setter, keeper of the Egyptian Museum,
and ride with him to the N.E., in the direction of the mountains. On
a hill beyond the village of (3/4 hr.): l-Hawm'theh we see the deserted Coptic
monastery, round which, in a wide circle, lie the tombs, now mostly
destroyed. They date from the 6th Dynasty (Pepiaaneh KNsausakhteta,
Ankhu, etc.) down to the Greek and Roman period. The grave of Tutu,
son of Sit aere (daughter of Osiris), with liturgical inscriptions, is well
preserved (1885). Most of the mummies found here were in good preserve
ration, and many contained rolls of papyrus. Among them were many
priests (m sud priestesses mm of Khem, whose genealogies are carried
up for eight or ten generation.

The town of Akhmim has now become the seat of an active
trade in mummies. Objects of considerable interest and value may
often be obtained from the dealers in antiquities, but relic-hunters
should not try to make purchases in the presence of the keeper of
the museum.

Continuing our journey up the Nile, we soon see, close to the
E. bank, a conspicuous convent-village, resembling a fortress Ort
account of its whitewashed walls the sailors call it Der el-Ahyad,
a name that properly belongs to the monastery mentioned at p. go,
which lies much farther to the W. About 50 men, women, and
children occupy the convent, which has little of a religious character in its mode of life. The pretty little church, built of light
and dark bricks, is lighted by cupolas, the largest of which is above
tha newt The nave is separated from the aisles by Wooden stream.
The Hékel, or Holy of Holies, at the it. end, is carefully enclosed.
in the nave, below the dome, stands the reading-desk of the priests,
and at the W. and of the church, separated from the priests, are
the seats for the laity. The paintings are wretched, and there are
no old MSS. I but the church is an excellent specimen of a Coptic
place of worship and is worth visiting, especially as it is only
it min. walk from the river. The monks are very obliging and are
grateful for a small donation (1 in, 19., or more) .--Thoma, which
was occupied by a Woman garrison, must have lain in this neighbourhood.

51/2 M, a steamboat and mail station on the
W. bank, is merely a peasants' town, with very few hqu










