ABYDOS. 4. Route. 53

was canonised on April 23rd, 303 A.D.; and even as early as the
5th and 6th sent. we find him. a favourite saint of the Egyptians.
Leo Africanus says that the Coptic brothers of St. George at Girgeh
were very wealthy and tells how they provided travellers with
what was necessary on their journey and sent rich gifts for the poor
to the Patriarch at Cairo. To this day several of the Coptic families
at Girgeh are very rich, possessing large Batman; preeminent among
these is that of Bothrus. The town looks very picturesque as seen
from the river. The Nile makes a sharp bend here, and the sheet
is as if the W. bank, on which the town stands, was at right angles
to the E. bank. The Arabian mountains rise like walls, and the
four tall minarets of the town, on the opposite bank of the Nile,
seem to via with them in height. A picturesque group on the
river-brink is formed by an old and dilapidated mosque and a tall
minaret beside it. Many of the houses in the town are built of
burnt brick and decorated with glazed tiles. The bazaar resembles
those of other Nile towns." From Girgeh to Abydos CArtttat elMadnneh), 12-N M., see below.--At Mesha'ik, on the E. bank,
above Girgeh, scholars will find interesting remains of a temple
bearing the names of Amenhotep HI. and Ramses H. Some very
ancient graves of priests of This have also been found there.

8 M, on the W, on the W. bank, is a mailastation and. the starting-point from which passengers on both the'three weeks' and
the Tour weeks' steamer make the excursion to Abydos (see below).
Excursion to the Western Doses, see R. 35,

A, Abydos.

Bali'dnch is now the usual starting-point for a visit to "Anibal
eGMadNneh (Abydos), which lies about 83/2 M. to tho S, inland from the then This highly interesting excursion, which should
on no account be omitted, involves a ride of 2 hrs. (there and back
4 hrs). The donkeys at Belidneh are bad and provided only with
loose rugs or straw-mats instead of saddles, and those at Girgeh
are no better. At Abydos accommodation may be obtained in the
house of Suiibch, keeper of the antiquities.

The track crosses the large Canal of Rémmeh, traverses a fertile
district dotted with numerous villages, and finally leads over part
of the Libyan Desert. Fine view of the mountainnchain running
towards the Nile. The ancient Abydos lay in advance of this chain,
on a site which may confidently be called the cradle of the earliest
line of the Pharaohs.

Manes, the first king of Egypt, is said to have been aThinite, is. an
inhabitant of the nome of This (Egypt. Tent). Adolf Schmidt, in his
'Forschnogen auf dem Gebiet des Altcrthums', tries to prove that This
(Tent) lay near etharbah, a little to the N. of Abydos while Pococke
seeks it n WBitteh mm temple }, 3 M. to the W. of G D h (comp.: (Wy.
It, u Eben! has suggested, the earliest Asiatic immigrants into ggypt
entered the Nile valley from the F, via Arabia and. 1h1? t, ral) of tr













