54 Route g, ABYDOS. Memnonium

Mendel), they could have found no more suitable spot for a settlement
than the neighbourhood of Abydos, where the fertile W. bank of the Nile
expands and esters my cultivation and excellent dwelling-aites, removed
from all danger of inundation. This is the most ancient town in Egypt,
and its neighbour Abydos cannot have been much younger, for even in
the time of the early empire it is frequently spoken of as a holy
city. It possessed the most famous grave of Osiris, of which it was
believed that burial in its vicinity or consecration in its sanctuary went
far in ensuring a favourable judgment in the world to some. From an
early period the grandees of the land caused their mummies to be brought
hither - often, however, for a limited time only, directing that, as soon
as the wished-for blessings had been received from Osiris, the bodies
should be carried back to their ancestral burial-grounds, Mariette has
proved that the town itself (Egypt. Able) was never of any great extent. The extant ruins extend from el-Kherbeh on the SE. If, however, Abydos was small in the number
of its citizens, it was great through the importance of the gods worshipped in its temples. Each of the 42 names of Egypt possessed its
temple of Osiris; but none of them, except that of Sokar in Memphis,
m led in sanctity that of Abydos. The testimony of the monuments is
confirmed by the classical writers. Herodotus left Upper Egypt undescribed, because Hummus had already treated of it, but we quote the
celebrated passage in which the trustworthy Strabo speaks of Abydos:
cAbove it (Ptolemai's) lies Abydos, the site of the Memnoninm, a wonderful
palace of stone, built in the manner of the Labyrinth, only somewhat
less elaborate in its complexity. Below the Memnonium is a spring,
reached by passages with low vaults consisting of a single atone and
prominent by their extent and mode of construction. This spring is
connected with the Nile by a canal, which flows through a grove of
Egyptian thorn-assets', sacred to Apone. Abydos seems once to have been
a large cam second only to Thebes, but now it is a small place, etc.'
Abydos is also mentioned by Pinter-ch, Athenaeus, Stephanos of Byzantium,
mommy, Pliny, and others. Ammianus Marcellinns speaks of the oracle
of the god Base, which flourished here.

The ordinary traveller, especially when he has at his disposal
only the 8 hrs. allowed by the steamer, will confine himself to the
Memnonium of Seti I. (Pl. I) at'Artrtrat e1-hiadft1neh end the sadly
dilapidated Temple of Ramses H. (Pl. H). The remains of the
so-called Temple of Osiris at ethhcrbeh (PL i) and the adjacent
site" of Marlette's excavations in the ancient necropolis among the
Libyan hills are rapidly becoming less and less interesting through

the steady encroachment of the desert sand.

The Momentum of Beti L

This noble structure, which, from the time of Strabo onwards, has
been visited and described by so many travellers, did not become fully
known to the modern world till Mariette Bey, with characteristic judgment and erseverance and supported by the generosity of the Khedive,
began in 1 the task of freeing it from the sand. His plan of isolating
the building by digging a trench round and preventing new accumulation: of sand was not carried wholly into chest, but still, with the exception of portion of the outside of the N. wall of the second court,
there is now no part of the temple where inscriptions are likely to
be found that does not stand open to the explorer. The difficulty of the
excavations was much increased by the fact that the back part of me
temple wu buried in the slope of the hill, in such away that it looked
like a gigantic sepnlchral chapel forming the vestibule to a mighty rocktomb in the bowels of the mountain. Mariette believes, and probably
with justice, that this peculiarity of the bismnoninm paplains the name














