78 ANIMAL KINGDOM.

and geraniums. all of which have been grown in Egypt from a very
early period. A bushy tree. which in its half leafless condition attracts
the attention of every traveller on landing at Alexandria in winter, is the
Poinsettia pulcherrima. The insignificant blossom is surrounded by leaves
of the most brilliant red, presenting a very picturesque and striking appearance. Natural forests, or even solitary wild trees, are never met
with in the valley of the Nle or in the valleys of the northern deserts.
0n the mnhankmeuts and on the brink of the rivers we occasionally
find wild tamarisks and willows (.str.f'.sti./'), but always in the form
of mere bushes. In the desert-valleys of Upper Egypt, however, grow
five different kinds of acacia and several other shrubs of inferior interest.
Another tree of considerable importance is the beautiful dttm palm, which
grows wild in the valleys of S. Nubia and even in the oases, but those
which occur in N. Egypt are always planted. Even in Lower Egypt it
is not met with beyond 27" N. latitude (indeed hardly beyond Keneh ],
and attempts to acclimatise it at Cairo have never been successful.' Lastly
we may mention two circumstances which throw some light on the tue
thni I position of Egypt. One of these is. that the commonest weeds
associated with the industrial crops of Egypt, and which occur nowhere
else. are of E. Indian origin; and the other. that numerous plants cultivated by the Egyptians are only now to be found in their wild condition
in the central regions of Africa.

The Animal Kingdom in Egypt. my m. J ], Th, lY. Ilettyh'n.)

l. DOMESTIC ANIMALS. The Home (pagan; horses, MEI, - mare, fut i,'
mal, muhr; the rider, than it) was probably unknown to the most ancient
Egyptians. and was first introduced by the llyksos (p, FIS). It is now to
he met with throughout the Whole of the valley of the Nile, and even in
the oases. Owing to want of proper care and insufficiency of food, the
Egyptian horses are generally of insignificant appearance.

The Egyptian Donkey (Arab. {: mdl'; comp. p. lit is noted for its
power of endurance, its spirited temper, and its moderate requirements.

The Male (Arah. baghl, or baghleh), although admirably adapted for
carrying heavy burdens, is less frequently bred in Egypt, but is sometimes imported from Abyssinia, Spain, and other parts of southern Europe,
Syria, and Asia Minor.

The Camel (Arab. gemel, fem. "dim; the camel for riding, begin). was
not unknown to the ancient Egyptians, as it is mentioned in several
papyri, but it was probably rarely used, particularly during the early
monarchy. During the hottest weather the camel can dispense with
water for three days or more, while its scanty provcuder consists of a
few handfuls of maize or beans, of the dry and wiry desert grass, of
straw, or of prickly Marin leaves.

The Buffalo tArah. gdmds) seems to have been long domesticated in
Egypt. Its ilesh is not esteemed, but the cows yield milk and butter.
The buffalo requires little food and attention, but does not thrive except
in swampy ground or in the vicinity of flowing water. The hide forms
strong and valuable leather.

The (M tArah. tor; cow, bal'm'a; calf, "fat; milk, chen; sweet milk,
lmh'h; some milk, Miner! or Mb ] thrives in Egypt on the dry soil of the
arable land, and is also reared in the oases. ann in the year 1863
Egypt possessed a long-horned race of oxen which is often represented
on the monuments; but the breed was entirely swept away by a came »
plague during that year. The fellahin make both butter and cheese from
the milk. Instead of a chum they use a leathern hag suspended from a
rope (l'it'bah).

The Goat (Arab. merrrt tyr 9mm; lie-goat. (( 3; kid, mum is to be
found in every cottage on the banks of the Nile, and in every tent in
the desert. Its milk is palatable and wholesomc. The hide makes
durable and waterproof water-bags.

Sheep (Aral). Him- (If, tm'geh, ghmmm, mum's; rum, kebab) are almost.
as generally kept by the Egyptian peasantry as goats, the most esteemed



