ANIMAL KINGDOM. 79




being the fat-tailed varieties (outs pachycera wcmw'candro and ovis
platym'a). The wool of the Egyptian sheep is harsh and wiry, while
many of those in the desert have stiff, straight hair, and are altogether
destitute of wool.

The Pig (Arab. khan2tr), which was regarded by the ancient Egyptians
as the emblem of Typhon, and is considered unclean by the Arabs, can
hardly be called one of the domestic animals of E t, but it is kept by
l the Greek tavern--keepers.
The Dog (Arab. l'elb) throughout the whole of the East is a masterless
and half-wild animal. The usual breed resembles the jackal type, its
colour being of a light rusty tint. Every canine family has its regular
heat, from which intruders are rigorously excluded. Most of the Egyptian
dogs feed on street refuse.
The Cut (Arab. keg, kolleh), which was one of the sacred animals of
the ancient Egyptians (comp. p. [ 36), is now domesticated in almost every
Egyptian and Beduin family.
The Weasel (musteta semipalmata; Arab.'crsa, or (« I-12.3), is occasionally kept, like the eat, for the purpose of keeping in check the
mice of numerous kinds with which the country is infested. It is chiefly
met with in a half-wild condition in Central and Lower Egypt, in the
towns, farm-buildings, warehouses, and deserted dwellings.
Foremost among the various kinds of poultry kept by the Egyptians
is the dumest _ 11m mmh furkhrr; cock, dill"). the usual breeds of which
are of small size. The artiticial hatching establishments in Egypt are of
very ancient origin.
The Turkey (Arab. farkha What) is imported.
The domestic Goose (Arid). mum) is chiefly met with in Lower
and Central Egypt, but nowhere in large numbers. The Egyptian
Domestic Pigeon (Arab. lemmim) is very common throughout the Nile
Valley. The peasants erect large dovecots for these pigeons, which they
keep solely for the sake of the manure they yield.

with a license from the police to carry tire » arms is at liberty
to shoot anywhere and at any season, provided enclosed gardens be not
entered, and growing crops respected. Permission to shoot on Lake
Menzaleh, however, must be obtained from the farmer of the lishings,
an introduction to whom may easily be procured from the traveller's
consul at Cairo.
Tolerable guns and other requirements for the chaste may he purchased at Cairo (p. 235), but gunpowder is bad and dear. Sportsmen
who bring their own'guns will find it very troublesome to clear them
at the custom-house.
One of the favourite objects of the chase is the Amman Mountain,
Goat (Ibex bedeu; Arab. beden or mural). which still frequents the
mountains between the Nile and the Red Sea.
Another inhabitant of the mountains is the'haned Sheep" (Outs tragelaphus; Arab. lam ahead, or Xebsh rl-7eFe0, which is occasionally met
with among the rocky hills near Minyeh and in the neighbourhood of
the Farha.

A denizen of the plains between chit" mill Suez. and of the Sande
bills and heights which bound the valley of the Nile and the oases, is
the Dorcas Gazette (Antilope dorms; Arab. glmztil), particularly during
the dry and hot season.
On the Libyan side of the Nile, in the region of the Natron Lakes
and the Fayfini, and the tract extending thence to the oases. occur also
the'Spear Antelope' (Antilope leptocerus; Arab. abu-'l (lbw 1mm) and the
Addax Antelope (Antilope adder; Arab. (films. or balm ebwalzsh), besides
which the Arabs mention a kind of'Cow Antelope' (perhaps the Antilope
u alts).

The Wild Boar 1'Arah. ltallflf) new occurs in a few districts only in
the Delta and the Faydm.

In similar localities the sportsman will also meet with the Marsh
Lynx (Felts chaus; Arab. tifuh), the small-footed Wild Cat (Fells manicu


