ANIMAL KINGDOM. 81



Mation, it descends to the vicinity of the Delta. Crocodiles are some »
times seen fast asleep, often with widely opened jaws, basking in the
sun on flat sandbanks or on the ends of low islands, to which they most
frequently resort after cool nights. In Egypt, however, where it is oftener
hunted than in more southern regions, the crocodile is generally too
wary to he caught napping, though it sometimes becomes entangled in
the nets and fall: a prey to the fishermen. The Arabs of the 511113111, who
eat the flesh of the reptile and prepare a kind of musk from its glands,
frequently angle for it with large hooks baited with meat.

It is seldom worth while to fire at crocodiles when swimming, as
they usually disappear in the turbid water, even when mortally wounded.
The sportsman should therefore endeavour to get within range of one of
these monster saurians when on shore. As they always keep within easy
reach of the water, they are occasionally observed on the banks of the
river by the traveller navigating the bile, in which use the should he
approached in a small heat as noiselessly as possible. Success is most
likely to he achieved in cases where the haunt () t' the reptile is known,
sh that the sportsman may lie in ambush at some convenient spot in the
vicinity. Unless, as rarely happens, the first bullet kills the animal on
the spot, it generally oontrlves to find its way back to the water, and
thus effects its escape.

Another meta" of great power, and extremely rapid in its movements, is the JfotoitoefAvab.u-0, which attains a length of 4-5 ft., and
derives its name from its supposed habit of giving warning of the approach of a crocodile.

111. OTHER MAMMALIA AND BIRDS. Although not indigenous to
Egypt, several varieties of Apes, which are imported from the S. andW.
provinces are seen in the larger towns. Among these are the ('ynocep/ « tlus lmmadryus and C. (uu1bis (both called 111'1'11 by the Arabs), the
[ 1111113 ecaadatustArab, t mm }, the Ce ercopltlmcus I'ltbcl', C'. J) tseo--vn 11111
and, more rarely, the v. pyrrhoaros.

The Nile Valley and the neighbouring desert hills are largely infested hy Bats (Arab. 11111510121), The commonest kinds are the Kalang
(Plat-opus), the Lmag-euretl 1:11! (Plecolas, l'espeI-tllia. T11111111z0us, iv humus),
and the Sputum" But Crlhirttrlaphtts, Nycteris, Rhirtoponm).

Besides the beasts of prey already enumerated (p. TO), we may also
mention the Muslela Africann, several kinds of Hedgehog (Erluaceus:
Arab. 11:11:11 53.513.

Egypt contains numerous species of the hehemm. The fields, dwelling-houses, and sailing-vessels are often infested with Mice and Rats (Mus,
Acomys), and in the Sinai Peninsula is found the Dop mouse (Eliomys metttttttees), all of which are called far by the Arab The Jammy Manse
(Dipus; Arab. 3121-1215611) and the Sand Mouse (Marianas.- Arah. gebelt') live
in the sand-hills
around Alexandria.

Besides the BIRDS indigenous to Egypt, there are, as already mentioned. a great number which winter there, while others merely pass
through the country when on their way to other regions. About 360 different species have been ascertained to occur in Egypt, but we shall
merely enumerate a few of the most important of those which remain
permanently in the country.

The commonest Birds of Prey are the (Lv'ypzlétus merridianulis; Arab. big). nist'),
the Eared Vulture (V. cinema"), the Goose Vulture (V. cinereus), which,
however, is a bird of passage only, the Carrion Vulture (Neaphrau percnoplerus; Arab. Pals/101111111), the IIurz-z'cz- (inlvus (regypliacus; Arah. health/eh),
and the Elanet (Elanus melrnmplerus). The white-tailed Scu Eagle
(1htliatitus albicilla; Arab. or shonuln) breeds in the Delta the
River Eagle (Pandioahauniitu's,. munsdr or lr'cldf) on the clill's of
the Red b'ea, the Dwm'f Eagle (Aquila 1113111111111) among the palm-groves of
Lower Egypt, and the meel' Falcon (Falca lmtm'ius enrich: Aral).
1111111111) and Fulco Dal-burns on the pyramids and rocky heights. Great
numbers of'8cpeaming Eagles' pass the winter in Egypt. Uf rarer ee
13111101111111: s Egypt 1 2ml m. G


























































