82 ANIMAL KINGDOM.



currence are the Imperial Eagle, the Hawk Eagle, the Jliarutovy Falcon,
the Stone and Red-fouled Falcons, the white-tailed Buzzard. the Htttrti,
and the Spam'owvhuwl' (Arab. (1112). Several species of the Enrupean Jlurrier are more common than these last. The Tower Falcon breeds in every
part of Egypt, and probably the (Fulw ceuchm'ti uhm. The
(iubar (Nisus gubm') is said to be sometimes met with in Upper Egypt.

The commonest Owls are the sub-tropical (Athena noctuu
mun: Arab. mum 5174;) and the Eagle Owl (Babe asculuphtrs; Arch. born, hr
Lufu).

The family of Goalsuckers is represented in Egypt by the peculiar
('uprimulgus tteyyptiactts. A small Swift (L'ypselus parvus), the chief
representative of its family. frequents the regions planted with the .him
palm. The shun"111' el l/Pltllt/l) most frequently seen
are the red- breasted Ilinnnda callitien which remains permanently in the
country. and a kind of Rock Swallow (Futile obsolete).

Of the Fishing Birds the most common is the Kingfisher (Pergle
radix), which frequents the banks of every part of the Nile.

The Bee Eaters are represented by the Nerops apmw, the .1 ]. and the JI 1'iridi. mus, all at which breed in Egypt; but the last
nuly, which is called sleetmgh by the natives, and chiefly occurs in Central and Upper Egypt, remaim throughout the year.

The most numerous of the Thin-billed Birds are the FfotrptresCtralr.
hudlnult, and to the JVrsunvuyrirles ltehmgs the pretty lustrous lluneysueler (Arum inn melallim), which frequents the from

Singing Jriml- tram ») are not numerous in l, nit, with the exception
of unmet-nus species bf bull's and Slanuclruls. We may next mention the
JJI'ymoecn. nr Drumoecus glnrzcilis the I'ixlicoln cnrsiluns. the Tree nightinyule (AEdwz yutactodes). the Aerocephnlns slentoreus, the African Water? caytuil (Motncilla vidutt), the Wedgeittil (Alain ucu'ue). and the Bulbul
(l'yenrrrurrvs Ar y, found in the Fayu'1m and N.Nubia, while a second
species, the P. aranthopygius oeeurs in Arabia retma and the valley of
the Jordan).

There are no Plyealchevs peculiar to Egypt. Among the Butcher-birds
we may mention the'Nstsked Shrike' (Lunius nubt'cns), and among the
Ravens (ginu'cib), the Short-tailed It'm'm (('urz'ns affinis } and the Desert
Raven. (l'. umbrinus). The lofty mountains of the t, Peninsula are the
haunt (If the Pred-legged F'rotetFre7ijs gr'ttculm and amung the tamarisk
bushes and on the Lnu'er Nile. such as the I'll'V-finl'ft
(Iz'upleclis frmlct'scnna). the Steel- finch (Iii/paella"! aliens). the'Lrulcetail'
(L I'oloncha euntrms). and the Ilium-f lllooilfim/i (Lugonosh'vlu Inininm).

tl'oodpcclm-s are llnl met uith un the Lu" er \ile'Ihe Wryneck and
grey Cuckoo ueeur as birds of passage. and the Spurred (Crrriropns
aey.rrptiacest mb. "bu bin-burl as a denizen of the Delta. The J (I'occystes ylurulstrius) is more widely Ilitl'usetl tllrnughnut the cuuntry.

Among the native Running Jh'rdi we may mention the Barr! Runner
(l' Ill sorius iszlbellz'nns). the Stone (an [ 421' (Oedicnemus cvepilattst Arab. let'wtin). the (Plurirums "eyyptittcttst Arab. terel- Jimszih), and
the sprightly Spurred Plover (Iloploplerus spinosus: Arab. .5" ml). The
columnnest of the Herons are the "lnw Ilmon' (Arden Ibis; Arab. abu
lmrddn) and the white' (Arden attm and .trdeu ym'zellu).
Near the Wridi lllztlfn ncuuri the xtbdim Stork (l'i'coni'u Abdimii; Arah.
ginbilth). To the family at the rum Ibis Trmtulus
and the Sacred Ibis (Ibis nethiopicu; Arab. rm'uyt'h gm-a, "ubu mingul).

Besides the European aquatic and other birds already enumerated.
which frequent the lugmins, lakes. and marshes (p. SI). we may also
mention the 11030 bucked I't lican (l'electtttutt rufescens) of N.Nubia~ the
curimw'Scissor-trep (Ilhyncnops flaiirowlrls; Arnh. abn mot- (is) and the 1" 01'
(loose (I'ltenalopez' negyplinvus; which are found throughout the
whole of the Nile Valley. the former especially in summer; and the








