ANIMAL KINGDOM. 83




Brown Booby (Sula fiber: Arab. shomel). several peculiar species of Gulls
and Sea Swallows (Lawns leitcophthalmus, Lapus gelastes, L (rrus Hempeichii,
Sterne media, Sterna Bergii, and Anous
stolidus). and the singular-looking, (ill the shores
of the Red Sea. The Flamingo (Phenicopterus aatiquorum; Arab. bdslm
rash) haunts the Red Sea and the lagoons of the Delta throughout the
whole year, usually cougregating in enormous flights, and breeds in the
F region to the E. of Laku en tiah.

1V. REPTILES. of this class of animals there are but few species
peculiar to Egypt. The Salmnmzders and Batrachians (Arab, Ffda'a) are
but scantily represented. There are about twenty species of Snakes (Arab.
tn'bdn), including the Horned Viper (C'erastes; rah. mot her.) which
appears in the ancient inscriptions as a hieroglyphic. the EeltisfhraNghuwhen Dr attshshttshat, the Cobra da Capella, Hooded, or Spectacle Snake
(inde Haje; Arab. whiter), the Telescopus (Arab. abu' (Arab. abet ri, the Psammopllz's (Arab. art'am), the
Zamenis (Arab. amt"). The horned viper,
the echis, and the hooded snake are highly venomous. and their bite is
often fatal; the other snakes are not venomous. but their bite is sometimes
dangerous. The Egyptian snake-charmers (l rah. Mun). all of whom belong to a gipsy tribe (ghagar), usually exhibit a number of cobras, the
teeth in which the venom is secreted having been extracted (comp. p. 8 ]).

To the order of thc Sum-inns belong the Crocodile (Cwonodllus vulgar-is;
Arab. um. tat), of which there are several varieties, and the Mottitor (1'a'rcmus niloticus; Arab. mutt"), both of which have been already mentioned
(pp. 80. 81). Other species occurring in Egypt arc the Ableplmrus, the Gonl/J/lus, the. Plestt'odmz, the GI )" (Arab. (lab). the Uromustim ru'iclis, the Slellt'a vulgar-is
(Arab. lit/ratio), several kinds of Agama, the Chameleon (Arab. bd! eh),
and numerous Ascalaboles (Arab. « bu burs). To the Turtle Family belong
the me Turtle (Trt'onyx aegyptiaca: Arab. tirsa) and a small Tortoise
(Testudo margiriata; Arab. zelltrifeh). while in the Red Sea occur six
varieties of (Arab. blsa or sat-Hr), several of which yield excellent
tortoise-shell (Arab. bagha).

V. FISH OF THE NIL ]: (by Dr. C. I }. Klunzinger). The tinny inhabitants of the Nile are in keeping with the palms growing on its banks
being of a tropical and African type. They are generally the same as
those found in the Senegal and other African rivers, while European
species are Very me. There are in all about 7080 varieties. The following sketch is merely designed to afford an idea of the commonest
species, particularly of those brought to market. Many of them are represented and described in the'Description de l'Egypte' (p. 200).

The fish of the Nile are most abundant during the time of the inundation. when a number of varieties. not found at other seasons. are
brought down from the higher regions to Lower Egypt. At these seasons
the chum yield abundant spoil. especially after the subsidence of the
water. The flesh is generally soft, watery, and insipid. but the mode of
cooking it is perhaps partly in mitt The colours are wanting in variety. white with a dark-coloured back predominating

Tu the Perch Family (scaly fish with serrated head-bones) belongs the
Keshr, and to the Carp Family (scaly fiSh without teeth) belong the Lebis,
or Debs, and the Blunt, with a thorn in its dorsal fin. The various kinds
of Sllm'idac are very abundant (fish without scales. with barbels, and
generally with an adipose fin). Among these are the Sltiliseh fa fish with
a high neck, a short dorm) tin hear the heath anti without the adipose
fin). which is of three kinds, the sizilbeh'ttrabi, the slzilbeh sheriffyelz, and
the slailbeh wudni (the first two with. the last without a spinous ray in
its dorsal fin). The Shall, called kiu'kdr in Upper Egypt owing to the
sound which they emit is easily recognised by the bony armour cover
in; r its head and its fringed barbels. The varieties are the Mun beledi,
the slid! ethic or Met'mn, and the shut {: mmti't' or bag » soda. the last of

6*





