84 ANIMAL KINGDOM.

which has a blackish stomach. The shd? karafsheh, or smur, has a layer
of hone over its neck. The shtilttbttriydl more nearly resembles the
following varieties. pruvi0dwi1hverylung
barlrels, (Ind generally LLr large, _ an adipose tin. while the
Alanna! "umbi has none To the same family belongs also the famous
1m ml or electric eel (with one adipose fin on its back. and blac, k sets
(111 iis skin).

The following families are peculiar to the tropics. The Chavrtciui
tsalmon of the Nile) are scaly and provided with an adipose I'm. Anton-r
these an: the high hacked and mum rhombis Kow .11LL1LL the ouhui;
fltry.wiui its small and somewhat flat teeth; the Ros/1121, ur JOR, L1 1mm
(river- dog). uith strong .conical teeth protruding, and the
Neftish, with in small. narrow. and closely-set teeth with double points.
and somewhat high shoulders. To the family of the (sealy tish
with spinous fins and Sides of irregular shape) belongs the Bolli.

A family occurring in Africa only is that of the Maroon-ides, or scaly
fish with remarkably small mouths, and heads covered with a thick and
bare skin. Among the members of this family is the Well-lmmvn Mormgu-Its (71'! I), with its lung sttottf
turned downwards. which was so frequently represented by the ancient
Egyptians; then the blunt-mouthcd Bancs, including the Kusho 111111
fittshtttt 11111112111, the last of which has an almost square
muzzle.

An interesting. but not common. fish is the Finny Pike (Poll/11b
Arab. alw bishir). with its numerous dorsal fins and rhomboida1 scales
covered with enamel, forming, r one of the few surviving members of the
abundant antediluvian Ganoids. The Ball Fish (Tell-Odo"; Arab. fawn "
mm is nol 1111 edible variety. is frequently uttered for sale, either fresh
or stulled (p. 236 ]. on account of its curious shape and its singular faculty
of puffing itself out like a bladder. lt diil'ers from the common ball-fish
of the Red Sea in having seven brown or blackish oblique stripes on its
sides. The Red Sea contains many tish of a. similar kind. but they are
not known to exist in the Mediterranean. From the latter sea the [ 1111'tieei31ugit) for le, frequently ascend the Nile, Li). The same re 111111-11 111111111111 to the
'Ir'inte' a fish resembling the herring, which LLLL in many of
the seas, rivers. and lakes ofE urope. The Eel "the Nile ffa'hia ei-rio/r)
does not ditler from that of European waters.

VI. let Bullet/lies are very rare in Egypt. hut Moths are much
more numerous. Amon! the not very numerous Beetles we may mention
the Ateuchus sacer. the celebrated Seamhaeus 1p. V251 of the ancient
Egyptians. This sacred beetle was supposed, io
be its manner of propagating its Species JTu//i1, l. x. 73 ].
The Egyptians accordingly consecrated the seamhaeus to P tah, the god of
origin and creation, who is often represented on the monuments with a ScaralIu-us in place of a. human head. Among other varieties occur the Buprestis, the Cieindela 111' s11n11-11eetle, Hie 11L mules, and ImIneruns Water Beetles.

The various kinds tif Wasps in Egypt attain a very large size. Bees
"re not often kept by the natives. The so- -called black honI-y eaten by
the lou er classes is sugui-L e1111e treacle.Thc white honey, which is the
genuine produce of bees. is impoIted from A abia.

'lhe commonest ot the (IrUIopIria are Ill- (rsshuppm's aml Cockroaches:
and of the J" E"" ll ]) ll'l' (l we may mention the Ephemera or day--flies. the
beautiful and 1dieu rrv0islecolutuvil "ruysr LLLLLI the I0ile Arttt LLLL
Amung the, and the Mosquito.
Vermin of all kinds abound, such as Hells, Buys. Lire, Scorpions.
'l'm'anhllus, and ('enliliedes.









w









