v
85

IO. Outline of the History of Egypt.

CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE.

INTRODUCTION. There is no people in the world whose history
is traceable to so remote a period as that of the Egyptians. Other
nations may possibly have understood the art of writing as early as
they, but no specimens of it have been preserved; whereas the Egyptian records, hewn in stone, burned in clay, or written on leather
or on scrolls of papyrus, have survived the ravages of thousands of
years. The preservation of these memorials, however, is mainly
due to the dryness of the air in the rainless valley of the Nile, and
to the property possessed by the hot sand of the desert of hermetically sealing everything committed to its keeping.

The remote dates with which Egyptian chronology deals seem mythical when judged by the standards of Jewish and Christian chronographers, and particularly when compared with the supposed date of
the creation of the world; but they are derived from the lists given by
1Ianetho, which have been confirmed by the monuments themselves.

The priest MANETHO (Egypt. Mai m That, i.e.'beloved of Thotb0 or mehennytum (the modern Semennfid, p. 415), being acquainted with the Greek
language, was employed by King Ptolemy 11. Philadelphus (B.C. 284-246)
to translate the ancient historical works preserved in the temples. This
'Egyptian History" of Manetho enjoyed a high reputation at a later period,
but was subsequently lost, with the exception of his lists of kings and their
date, which have been transmitted to us partly by Flavius Josephus, the
Jewish historian (1st cent. A.D.J, and partly by Christian historians.

The monuments and inscriptions in some cases confirm, and in
others supplement, the records transcribed by Manetho for the
Ptolemies, our information being derived from the series of kings'
names inscribed on tablets found at Abydus, Karnak, and Sakkara,
from papyrus scrolls, particularly one in the Museum of Turin, and
lastly from historical and genealogical notices on the walls of temples and tombs, on statues, implements, and trinkets. A methodical mode of utilising these fragmentary historical records was first
taught by the learned Prof. Lepsius (d. 1881)

The lists of the Pharaohs are arranged in the families or dynasties
of the Thinites, Memphites, and others. If it he assumed that these different houses reigned in succession, and their reigns be simply added
together, the sum which results is very large. But, if it he assumed that
many of the dynasties mentioned by Manetho reigned contemporaneously
in different parts of the country, the reigns of members of the leading
dynasties alone have to be added together, and a comparatively moderate
sum is the result. Adopting the former method of computation M. Mariette
has fixed the date of Manes. the first King of Egypt, as 13.0. 5002, while
Sir Gardner Wilkinson, proceeding on the latter assumption, assigns the
date B.C. 2700 to the same monarch. Lepsius, on the other hand, believes
the true date to be 3.0. 3892, as Manetho states that an interval of 3555
years for 3553, taking into account the differenee between the Egyptian
and-the Julian year) elapsed between the reign of Manes, the first King of
Egypt,, and that of Nectanchus 11. (13.0. 340). 330), the last of the native sovereign, Our information becomes more definite after the beginning of the
New Empire, while from the 20th Dynasty (13.0555) downwards the dates of the different kings are well ascertained.

In accordance with the arrangement of the history of Egypt



