86

HISTORY.

given by Lepsius, and now generally accepted, the mythical period
was succeeded by that of the Primueuat Monarchy, the Hyksos Domination, and the New Empire, which were followed by the supremacy of the Persians, the Ptolemics, and the Romans in succession.
Another system recognizes between the Old and the New Empire
a Jlidrlle Monarchy, which includes the period of the Ir) EOS. These
divisions, in conformity with the lists of Manetho, are again subdivided into Dynasties, or different families of kings, named after

the districts or names (p. 32) of which their founders were natives.

Chronological Table,

Primeval Monarchy.

l. DYNASTY (Thinites, i. e. from'l'eni, the Greek This,
who is said to have founded Memphis (see p. 3731.

Athothis (Eg. Ilescpti'), who is said to have written anatomical works.

ll. DYNASTY (Thinites).

Ill. DYNASTY tdlemphiles, from Memphis. which soon
obtained precedence over the more southern royal city
of This).
Tusorthros fre. TIO, who studied medicine In his

reign the calendar is said to have been regulated, and the

year of 365 days introduced (consisting of twelve months of
thirty days, with five supplementary days').

Snefru (pp. 311, 468. 170, MI I, the founder of the dth
Dynasty, and the first king of whose reign we possess contemporaneous monuments. Long after his death he continued to he highly extolled, and was even revered as a god,

Khufu (tho Greeks) Builders of the
Khafra (the f" hephren of the Greeks; three great Pyrapp. 1:39, 345) mir' of (ii. 12 ], see p.314 et seq),
who, however, was ill informed with regard to the earliest period
of Egyptian history. The monuments themselves hear testimony
In the fact that the family and court. of the builders of the Great
Pyramid }; were pious worshippers of the gods, that they were
prosperous and wealthy, and that they were industrious and perSew-riug in their undertakings. At that period the fine arts, and
particularly that of sculpture, attained a perfection which the
Egyptians never again reached. The inscriptions on the menuments also exhibit. a high degree of technical skill.

+ M. ii lhe initial letter ofllaricltc, L. afl.cpsius, and\\'. of "'ilkinson;
comp. p. bu .--'l'he most important names only in each dynasty are given.



