ARTS



i

PREFACE.

The present volume is the second of a series of HANDBOOKS FOR THE EAST now in course of preparation, and designed, like the Editor's European handbooks, for the guidance of travellers.

The materials from which the first edition of the Handbook for Lower Egypt was compiled were partly furnished
by Professor G. Ebers of Leipsic, while articles on special
subjects, as well as many additions and emendations, were
contributed by a number of other writers. The Editor is
specially indebted to Professor Asclzerson and Dr. Klunzingcr
of Berlin, Dr. G. Schweinfwth and Franz Bey of Cairo, Professor Son); of'l'iibingen.
To several English gentlemen who contributed a number of
valuable corrections and suggestions, and particularly to the
distinguished Egyptologist, Dr. Samuel Birth, the Editor
also begs to tender his grateful acknowledgements. The
corrections and additions for the second edition have been
mainly furnished by Dr. Schweinfurth, Dr. Spitta Bey (late
librarian to the Khedive), and Emil Brugsclz Bey, all of
Cairo.

The Editor has also repeatedly visited Lower Egypt for
the purpose of obtaining the most recent practical information, of the kind most likely to be useful to travellers.
As, however, a tour in the East is attended with far greater
difficulty than in Europe, and sources of information are far
less abundant, the Handbook must necessarily contain many
imperfections, and the Editor will therefore gratefully avail
himself of any communications which his readers may kindly
contribute, as many of them have so generously done in the
case of his European handbooks. As Oriental life and scenery
differ widely in many respects from European, and can hardly be appreciated without some previous study, the Editor
has endeavoured to supply the traveller with all the most
necessary preliminary information, believing that it will be
acceptable to most of his readers, although somewhat beyond
the province of an ordinary guide-book.

The MAPS and PLANS have been an object of the Editor's
special care, as he knows by experience how little reliance
can be placed On information obtained from the natives, even
when the traveller is conversant with their language. The
maps of the Handbook are based upon the large maps of






