SS HISTORY.

Under this Dynasty the sceptres of Upper and Lower
Egypt were united. All the kings were powerful and prosperous, and art again flourished. The Sun Temple at Heliopolis (see p. 335) was magnificently restored, and in the
Fayt'im the practice of building pyramids was revived (see
p. i50 at ser). During this period, too, fortifications were
erected on the N E, frontier of the kingdom which appear
to have extended across the whole of the present Isthmus of
Suez (p. 4511

The Hyksos Period (pp. 908, 373, 453, iN).

In the 19th Dynasty we already hear of Semitic families
applying for admission to Upper Itgyptt, and in the 13th
Dynasty these immigrations became more frequent. The.
newcomers met with kinsmen in the seaports of the Delta,
allied with whom and 11ith Arabian tribes they at length
became so powerful as to defeat the armies of the Pharaohs
and ohtain possession of the Whole of Lower Iigypt. They
made'I'anis their capital, and under the name onyksos
ruled over N.lirrypt fortite centuries, while the exiled royal
family was compelled to retire to Upper Egypt. (The name
of'llyksos', according to Josephus, 5lanctho, and others,
is derived from hyk, a king, and sos, a shepherd and thus
signifies'shepherd hings'; some modern authorities. however, derive it from huh shasu, signifying g tehher Kings'.'l'hey applied the name of the Egyptian
god Set to their own gods (lte'aiim); and the sphinws
preserved at't'anis with the portrait-heads of their Lines
(p. "298) prove that they took ligyptian artists into their service, and perhaps themselves acquired a knowledge oi' the Pharaohs and the, whole of the court
ceremonies of the legitimate monarchs of Egypt. 1'

Xlll. m NASTY (Diospolilcs)'.

H- From this it appears that. when Joseph came to Egypt at the end
of the ll_\'ksos period. he found on the throne a monarch of a, race kindrcd to his own, though conforming in all respects to the ancient customs of the Pharaohs. .\ t'aniiuu nn-nlioncd in a tooth at I'll-Kill: is pertraps identical with the one which brought Jacob and his family to Egypt.
This lonih belonged to the father of Anlunrs, a naval officer, who took
part in the expulsion of the llyksns about four t'enturies hefnre the Exmiu-i. Tle in: "\\'hen a famine prevailed for many
years, then 1 gave the city corn during each famine'.





