90 HISTORY.'

capital of the Hyksos, where be erected extensive buildings
with the aid of the Semites, among whom the Israelites
must also be included. During this reign a great canal was
completed in Goshen (see p. 411), leading from the Nile to
the h }. frontier of the kingdom, and probably thence through
the llitter Lakes to the lied Sea but chiefly destined for
the irrigation of the land of Goshen.

Ramses II. the flesnstris of the Greeks op, 313, 374, 4 10,
3113,1324 3, 4'37, 3153, 481), with a view to vindicate his supremacy
over the nations subjugated by his ancestors, undertook campaigns towards the. S. to Dun cola, towards the N. to Asia Minor,
and towards the E. to the gris, to commemorate which be
erected monuments of victory in various parts of the conquered
countries. He exhibited great zeal as a builder, and was a
patron of art and science. lle erected the Itamesseum at
Thebes, and presented it with a library. Pentaur, Amenemapt, and other poets Ilourished during this reign. Ramsesll.
was the Pharaoh who oppressed the Israelites (Exod. i. 11).

Merenptah (Or. Amencphthes), the'Pharaoh of the Exodus'
(pp 3115,1531, 481). During his reign (in the year 1325,
according to Brandis) the termination of a Sothis period"?
was celebrated. A conllict which broke out between this
monarch and the Israelites settled in Goshen resulted in his
diseomfiture Ll'lxod. Kim).

The New Empire.
11. 1288. XX. DYNASTY (Diaspotitcs; p. 479 }.

's 1900- Ramses m, (the Jlhampsittitus of Herodotus,



1'11; see
\V. 331, 405), though sneeesstul inhls eampmgn against
the Libyans and in other warlike enterprises, could not vie
with his ancestors in military glory, but endeavoured to.
surpass them in the magnificence of his buildings. His
monument at Iiihén cl-MUN, near Thebes, is one of the l
finest now in existence. Most of the reek-tombs in this city

of royal mausolea were founded by his successors of the
same Dynasty, all, of whom also here the name of Ramses
(tlr-NUI.).







,'rlw mum of oihis, nr lhc Ilnz-an Tmulurl the memidns a means
of ascertaining the true astronomical year. They began their first year
with the early rising of the inundMian
t 1st Thirtl0. T113 F. pti m solar ym. being six hours too short,
dillered from the Sothis year by a quarter of a day. discrep""sou" IH-mme very perceptible. After 10 years the end of the solar
year fell by 11) days, and after 1100 years by w day, short of the end of the
true Sothis year, and festivals recurred at season. to which they did not
proper ]; belong. At length, after 3 (55X-1 years, the error corrected itself.
and the beginning of the new year again coincided with the rise of Sothis.
Thus in n period of HUU frsurnl, or Mot variable, years the error in the
Egyptian calendar was rectified.





