M. 1110.
L. 1091?
w: 1055,

M, 810.
L. 787.
W.SIS.



HISTORY. 9 1

XXI. DYNASTY (Tonnes, from Tanis, in the NE. part of
the Delta; pp. 373, 2521.

The throne of the Ramessides IT as now usurped by ambitious
hierarehs of Tanis, headed by Herhor, the chief prophet of
Ammon; and Thebes was thus: deprived of her ancient preeminence. This dynasty of priest-kings reigned ingloriously.
Being unable to exact obedience from their Asiatic vassals
by force, they endeavoured to maintain their suzerainty by
a conciliatory policy. (See also the relations of Solomon
with Egypt: t Kings iii. l; is. 16; s. 280
XXII. DYNASTY (Bubastites, from the Bubastis of the

Greeks, the Pibeseth of the Bible, the Pibast of the
Egyptian monuments, the modern Tell Basta in the Delta;
pp. 163, 410, 457 ].

Sheshenk L (the Sesonchis of the Greeks, the Shishak of
the Bible; p. 454) assisted Jeroboam against Rehoboam, and
besieged and captured Jerusalem.

Osorkon (Gr. Osorthon, the Zerah of the Bible, 2 Chron.
xiv. 9; xvi. 8; see p. 457) invaded Palestine, but was
signally defeated by Asa.

XXIII. DYNASTY (T tsites; p. 4'53

fnckht, prince of, is and Memphis, attempted to possess
himself of the sovereignty of Lower Egypt, but was defeated
by Piankhi, King of Ethiopia, who captured Memphis, but

afterwards returned to his own country (see p. 299).

XXIV. DYNASTY (Stitch, from Sal's, the modern Se elllager; p. 445 ].

Balt-en-ranf (Gr. Bocchoris) vainly endeavoured by a new
legislation to arrest the decline of the empire. In 716 Egypt
fell into the hands of the Ethiopians .--Interregnum.
XXV. DYNASTY (Ethiopians). Shabako (G11 Samson) eon
quered Upper Egypt, and resided at Thebes7 but made no
alteration in the religion or the constitution of the country. His sister Amenerilis (p. 207) became the wife of
King Ra-men-khepevr Piankhi, and their daughter Shep-enapet married Psammetikh I. (see below).

Shabataka (Gr. Sebichos) led an army to the assistance of
the Jewish king Hezekiah, but was defeated at Altaku by
Sennacherib, King of Assyria.

Taharka. (Gr. Teal-co; the Tirhaknh of the Bible, the anlm-u
of the Assyrian monuments; pp. 299, 303) formed an alliance with the kings of thnieia and Cyprus against Assyria, but was defeated in Egypt by Esarhaddon, the son and
successor of Sennacherib, and driven back to Ethiopia.
The Assyrians then plundered Thebes and divided the country among twenty princes, among whom Nekho (the Nechoh



