92



fe m ] 2
www.

6107594.






HISTORY.



HISTORY.

of the Bible), prince of Sais, became the most prominent.
After I'lsarhaddon's death Taharka endeavoured to shake off
the. Assyrian yoke, but was defeated and driven out of Egypt
by ArutrbrmiprVrdnrwpulsts), Esarhaddon's son and sues-esser. The vassal princes assisted Taharka, but were pardoned hy Assurhanipal and reinstated in their provinces on
a solemn vow of future obedience.

Nut-Amen (Assyr. Urdunumi) captured Memphis and won
hack the whole of Lower Egypt, hut was in his turn defeated
hy Rardanapalns, who again invaded Egypt.

After the departure of the Assyrians and the decline of
their power under the successors of Sardanapalus, the petty
Egyptian princes attained complete independence and mtahlishcd tho sn-callml qhHokarcisy'. An end. however, was
put to this by Psummetilch, son ot'Nokho, and prince of "
and Memphis, with the aid of Ionian and Corian mercenaries. As the nephew (by marriage) of Shahako (p. 91)

Psammetikh was the legitimate heir of the Ethiopian dynasty, and he accordingly ascended the throne of Egypt and
founded the
XXVI. DYNASTY (Suites; pp. 163, 427, 446).

Psammetikh I. (Egypt. I'semtek, Gr. Psummeiiehusip. 385),
in order to consolidate his empire, assigned dwellings to the
Greek mercenaries in the fertile region of Ruhastis, and favoured foreigners in many ways. The warrior caste of Egypt,
highly offended at this proceeding, emigrated to Ethiopia,
and there founded the kingdom of the Semhrides. Profiting
by the decline of the power of Assyria, Psammetikh made
war against the wealthy l'hlenieian seaports, but was stoutly
opposed by the Philistines.

Nekho (( irk. Nachos, Egypt. Nekau; p. -l'27), the son of
l'sammetikh, was morn r-ern-ul for the domestiu welfare
of the country than for military glory. During his reign the
s. extremity of Africa was eiremnnavigated for the first time
(Herod. iv. 4'3). Nekho began to construct a canal from the,
Vile to the lied Sea, but discontinued the work On being
informed by an oracle that it would only henetlt'strangers.'
Hearing of the campaign of the Modes and llaliylonians
against the Assyrians. he also marched against Assyria, and
defeated Josiah, King ot'Jndah, the ally ol' the Assyrians, who
opposed him at Negi Ilo. Meanwhile, however, Nineveh had
fallen, and the Assyrian empire been divided by Cyaxares,
King of Media, and Nahopolassar, king of liahylon; and
Nekho's farther progress was arrested by Nehuehadnezzar,
King oi'ltaliylnn and son of Naly0polassar, who defeated him
at liarkemish li'ireesinm). Nekho thus lost his possessions
in Syria and Palestine.



