HISTORY. 93




94-58%).
589 (Gr. Apries or Uaphris; the Hophrah of the
Bible), observing that the Babylonians were encroaching on Palestine, fitted out an army and fleet, captured Sidon, defeated the Cyprians and the Tyrians in a
naval battle, and marched to the relief of Zedekiah, King of
Judah, who was besieged in Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar.
That city having been again besieged by Nehuchadnezzar
and captured, Uaphris accorded an asylum to its exiled
inhabitants. He afterwards sustained a defeat from Battns 11., King of Gyrene, in consequence of which his army
rebelled against him. Aahmes, who had been dispatched by
him to treat with the insurgents, was then proclaimed king,
and he himself was dethroned.

Aahmes II. (Gr. Anmsis; p. 386) succeeded in securing
his supremacy by alliances with Cyrene, with the tyrant
Polycrates of Samos, and with the Greek He assigned land
to foreign colonists, granting them religious toleration, and
diverted the stream of commerce from the semi-thnician
cities of the Delta ('l'anis, Modes, and llnbastisl towards
the Greek city ofNaucratis (see p 907 ]. During his reign the
country enjoyed peace and prosperity, but the balance of
power among the great nations of that era underwent a considerable change. Cyrus had meanwhile founded the vast Persian empire, and consolidated it by means of the conquest of
the Babylonian and Lydian kingdoms. His son Cambyses next
marched against Egypt, the only great power which still
rivalled Persia. Having advanced to Pelusinm with a large
army, he there defeated Psammetikh TIL, son of Amasis,
who was now dead (p. 371 ], captured Memphis, and
took the king prisoner. Psammetihh was afterwards executed
for attempting to organise an insurrection to shake off the
foreign yoke.

561-596.

The Persian Domination.

XXYlI. DYNASTY (Persians).

Cambyses (Pew. Kumbuziya 11., Egypt. Kembui; pp. 374,
386, 446) at first behaved with great moderation. He
tolerated the Egyptian religion, and to his own name he
added the Egyptian agnomen of Ramesut, or'child of the
I sun'. After, however, he had failed in several rash enterprises, such as his campaigns against the inhabitants of the
oasis of Amman and against the Ethiopians, his temper
became soured, and his conduct violent and cruel. He died
at Achatana in Syria, while matching to Persia against
Gaunmtu, a usurper who personated Rurdiyn LGr. Smerdis),






