94 HISTORY. "

the deceased hrother of Cambyses, who had been assassinated
long before this period by order of the king himself.

Darius I. [ l'ers. Dru-yams ], son oflIystaspes (Vistaspa),
became king of the Persian empire 0n the dethronement of
the usurper Ganmata (the personator of Smerdis ]. His
policy consisted in modifying his rule over each part of his
territory in avcardance with its own special requirements.
Ile endeavoured to promote the prosperity of Egypt in every
possible way. He established new commercial routes from
koptos in Upper Egypt to the Red Sea, and from Sid; and
Abydus to the Simian; he resumed the construction of the
canal from the Nile'to the Red Sea o. 4'28); he improved
the roads of Egypt; he sent a strong garrison to the oasis
of lilrargeh [ 1). 63 }. and erected a temple to Ammon there;
he coined money for the use of the Egyptians, whose currency had hitherto consisted of stamped rings and weights;
and he appointed Amasis, a scion of the 2b'th Dynasty. his
satrap in Egypt. Hearing that the Persians had been defeated by the Greeks On 402 and loo), the Egyptians
revolted against the Persian yoke under the leadership of
K/mbbash. a descendant of the family of Psammetikh. The
insurrection, however, was soon quelled by
Xerxes I. YbsLtyurslie), son of Darius; lihahhash
disappeared, and Aehaimeues, the king's brother, was appoined satrap.

463425. Artaxerxes I. (Pets. Arlukhshalhrifl, surnamed Mukroehcir,
or Longimunus, next ascended the Persian throne. During
16' }. his reign the Egyptians again revolted. l'rinee Inarus of
Marc", aided by the Athenians, defeated Aehaimenes, the
Persian satrap, but the allied Egyptians and Greeks were
in their turn defeated by the Persian general Megahyzus
near Prosopitis, an island in the Nile, and lnarus was
crucified. zlmyrlucus, a wir, 1 of a primal) Egyptian family,
and a partizan of Inarus, then sought an asylum in the
marshy coast district. where he sum-ceded in maintaining
his independence.

Herodotus travels in Ftvpt.

Darius IL U'ers. Durymms ], surnamed Nothos, or the
bastard. The Egyptians now revolted for the third time.
Putts-iris, son of the Amyrtzeus above mentioned, hail
meanwhile been succeeded by a second Amyrlacns, who still
maintained the independent position of his predecessor in
the Delta. This Amyrtzeus headed the new insurrection,
which became general in dot; and he was soon recognised as
king of the whole of Egypt. He founded the 28th Dynasty,
which however, lasted for six years only. Nuifdurut (Ne


