V

171,

370-165.

170--165.

165.

1116.

132

125.
117.
117-81.

106.
89.
87.

SI.

81.
81-52.



HISTORY. 97

(p. 408), when six years of age, ascended the throne under
the protectorate of his mother Cleopatra 1.

Battle of Pelusium. Philometor is taken prisoner, and Memphis captured, by Antiochus IV. of Syria.

Ptolemy VIII. was now placed on the throne, but was immediately assassinated by Ptolemy IX. Euergetes II. (nicknamed Physcon, or'big belly' ].'

Ptolemy VII. Philometor and Ptolemy IN. Physcon, having
become reconciled, reign jointly.

The brothers quarrel; Philometor flies to Rome, is rein-.
stated by the Roman senate, and thenceforth reigns alone;
while Euergetes, by command of the Roman senate, reigns
at Gyrene.

Philometor dies.

Ptolemy Physcon besieges Alexandria, and becomes the
guardian of the heir-apparent, a minor.

He is overthrown by a revolution, and retires to Cyprus.

He regains possession of the throne.

Physcon dies. Cleopatra HI. Cocoa, his niece and widow,
and her son Ptolemy X. Soter II. Philometor II. (Lathyrus)
reign jointly.'

Lathyrus is banished, and his brother Ptolemy XI. Alexander I. becomes too-rep) in his stead.

Alexander is exiled by insurgents.

Alexander is slain in a naval battle, and Lathyrus is
recalled.

Thebes rebels and is destroyed.

Lathyrus .dies. Alexander marries Berenice III., with
whom he reigns jointly, under the name of Ptolemy XII.
Alexander 11.

He assassinates his wife, and is himself slain.

Ptolemy XIII. Neos Dionysos (or Auletes, the fluteplayer"), an illegitimate son of Lathyrus, ascends the throne,
and is formally recognised by Home (59).

Diodorus visits Egypt.

Auletes flies from Alexandria to Rome, but is reinstated
by Gabinius.

Auletes dies, leaving a will by which he appoints his eldest
children
Cleopatra VII. (pp. 428, 213) and Ptolemy XIV. Dionysos IL his joint heirs, cOmmands them to marry each
other, and nominates the Roman senate their guardian.
Pompey is appointed to that office.

Ptolemy XIV. banishes Cleopatra. Pompey, having been
defeated by Caesar at the Battle of Pharsalia, seeks an asylum
in the territory of his wards, but on landing in Egypt is
slain at the instigation of Ptolemy.

BAEDEKER'S Egypt L 2nd Ed. 7



