OS HISTORY.,

is. Caesar lands at Alexandria, takes the part of the banished
Cleopatra, and defeats the rebellious Ptolemy.

Ptolemy NIV. is drowned in the Nile.

Oresar, having meanwhile become dictator of Kumc, ap47. points Ptolemy XV., the brother of Cleopatra Vi ]., a boy
of eleven, eo-regent.

PtolemyXV. is assassinated at the instigation ofClCOpatra,
45. and Ptolemy XVI. Caesarion, her son by Ga'sar7 is appointed
co-repent.

M Caesar is murdered.

:12. Antony, having summoned Cleopatra to Tarsus to answer
for the conduct of her general Animus, who contrary to her
wishes had aided the army ofllrutns and Cassius at Philippi,
is captivated by her beauty and talent. After having spent
31. years of debauchery with the Egyptian queen, he is at
length declared by the Roman senate to be an enemy or his
country. Octrwiamrs marches against him, dermis him at
Aetium, and captures Alexandria.

30. Antony commits suicide, and Cleopatra is said to have
also caused her own death by the bite of an asp.

Egypt now became a Roman province, and was governed
by prefects down to A.D. 302.

3193?; Roman Period.

27. Caesar Octavimrus, under the title of Augustus, becomes
sole ruler of the vast Roman empire (p. 213 ]. The Egyptian
priesthood accord to the Roman emperors the privileges enjoyed by their own ancient monarchs, and in their templeiuscriptious style them numerator (absolute sovereign).
22, The Ethiopians, under their queen Candace invade Egypt.
Stmbo travels in i'lgypt.

D. 1161 Tiberius crests the Sebasteum at Alexandria.
IO. Germanium visits Egypt.

37-11. Caligula. A persecution of the Jews takes place, to which
we are indebted for the valuable treatise of Josephus in
answer to Apion, who had written against the Jews.

Ill-55. Claudius. Rights of ritizeusbip guaranteed to the Jews.
Lake JItEriS gradually dries up.
51-68. Nero. Egypt acquires a neu source of uealth as a commercial station between India, Arabia and Home.
02. Annianus, first bishop of Alexandria

iF-tif). h'albu. Ollie. l'ilcltius.
($ 9.79. Vespasian (p. 213) visits Alexandria. From this city Titus
starts on his expedition against l'ab-stine, which terminates
with the destruction of Jerusalem in the year 70.

Domitian (p. "3) encourages the worship of Isis 1nd
stout Scmpis at Home.





