1771.

1773.

1798,
lst July.

2nd July.
13th July.
let July.

Ist Aug.

3-25th Sept.
1799, Jam,
May
25th July.
Nth Aug.

1800, 21st
Mar.
I 14th June.

1801, Sept.



HISTORY. 105

nominal supremacy, and thus claims a legal title to the office of Khalif, the spiritual and temporal sovereign of all
the professors of El-lslém.'r

The authority of the Osman sultans soon declined, and
with it that of their governors. The Egyptian pashas were
now obliged, before passing any new measure, to obtain the
consent of the 24 Mameluke Rays Cor princes) who governed
the different provinces, and who merely paid tribute to the
pasha. The most distinguished of these beys was
'Ali Bey, originally a slave, who raised himself to the
dignity of an independent sultan of Egypt by taking advantage of the difficulties of the Turks, who were involved
in war with Russia, He conquers Syria and Arabia, but on
his return to Egypt is imprisoned by order of his own
son-in-law Abu Dabad, and dies a few days afterwards.
Abu Dabad obtains a ratification of his authority from the
Turkish sultan. After his death, the beys
M-uw'ul and Ibrahim share the supremacy, and render themselves almost independent of Turkey.

The French Occupation.

Napoleon Bonaparte Lpp. 223, 4201 arrives at Alexandria, hoping to destroy the English trade in the Mediterranean, and, by occupying Egypt, to neutralise the power
of England in India.

Storming of Alexandria.

The Mameluke Bey Murid defeated.

Battle of the Pyramids.

Destruction of the French fleet at Abulgir by the English
fleet commanded by Nelson (p. 447).

Insurrection at Cairo quelled.

Central and Upper Egypt conquered.

Defeat of the Turks at Auth.

Napoleon returns from Alexandria to France, leaving
General Kle'ber in Egypt.

Kléber defeats the Turks at Matariyeh (p. 333).

Kléber is assassinated at Cairo (p. 243).

The French are compelled by an English army to capitulate
in Cairo and Alexandria, and to evacuate Egypt.

leaving

iThe Turkish Khalifs, however, have never been recognised by the

Shi' ites,

as not being descended from um. Most of the Sunnites also,

especially among the learned Arabs, regard them merely as temporal mun
arch s.

Relying on an ancient tradition, they maintain that none but de
can attain the office of Imam, or spiritual superior. They accordingly re
gard the great Sherif of Mecca as their true Imme






