106

1503.

1805-1513.

1511.

1931.

1832.

"oo,

ISM



HISTORY.

Mohammed rAli and his Successors.

In the year 1803 the French consul Matthieu de Lesseps
was commissioned by his government to seek for some suitable man to counteract the influence of the English and the
Mamelukes in Egypt, and he accordingly recommended for
the purpose Mohammed'Ali, who was born at Kavaia in
lioumelia in 1709, and who was at that period colonel
Minibus-hi } of an Albanian corps of 1000 men in Egypt.

Mohammed'Ali, having succeeded in removing most ofhis
enemies, is appointed Pasha of Egypt. In 1807 be frustrates
an attempt of the English to take possession ongypt, and on
lst March, 181 1, causes the Mamcluke beys, who prevented
the progress ofthe country, to be treacherously assassinated.
together with their followers (470 in number). His son,
Tustin Pasha, wages a successful war against the Wahhabites in Arabia, and deprives them of Mecca and Medina.
Mohammed improves the agriculture ongypt by introducing
the cotton-plant, and by restoring the annals and embankments, appoints Frenchmen and other Europeans to various
public offices, and sends young Egyptians to Paris to be
educated. During the Greek war of independence he sends
91,0110 men to the aid ofthe sultan, as a reward for which he
is presented with the island of Candie at the close ofthe war.
In 1831, aiming at complete independence, he makes war
against the Porto. His son lbrahim invades Syria, and captures'Akka ('37th May, 1832), Damascus LSth July), and
Haleb Lglst Dee ], destroys the Turkish fleet at litonyeh
(Iconium), and threatens Constantinople itself. IJis victorious (career, however, was terminated by the intervention
of Russia and l-'rance. Syria is secured to Mohammed by
the peace of li'utfiliyeh, but he is obliged to recognise the
suzerainty ofthe Porto. At the instigation ofthe English, Stiltim Malyurid renews hostilities with Egypt, but is decisively
defeated by Ibrahim at Nisibi on 24th June, 1839. in consequeuce of the armed intervention of England and Austria,
however, Ibrahim is compelled to quit Syria entirely, and
Mohammed is obliged to yield to the Porte a second time.
By the so-calledfirman of investiture in 1841 Sultan AhduTJledjid secured the hereditary sovereignty of l-lgypt to the
family of Moham med'Ali, the pasha renouncing his provinces of Syria, Claudia, and the mm, and binding himself to
pay an annual tribute of i'Ar, r) l, i, lJU () l.|
to the Porto and to reduce his army to 13,000 men. During
the last years of his lim Molramnwd Full into a state. of imlnwilit), and died on'lnd Aug. lB-l'.' at Ahora.








