1349-1351.

1851-1863.

1863.



HISTORY. 107

Ibrahim Pasha, Moltammed rAli's adopted son, had already taken the reins of government, in consequence of
Mohammed's incapacity, in January 1848, but he (lied in
November of the same year, and before his adoptive father.

'Abbfis Pasha, a son of 1.'usrln Pasha and grandson of
Mohammed rAli, has generally been described by Europeans
as a brutal, vicious, and rapacious prince. This, however,
would seem to be a somewhat distorted view of his character,
arising from the fact that he had inherited from his Arab
mother a certain amount of ferocity and even cruelty, coupled
with the dislike of a true son of the desert for European innovations. He, however, maintained the strictest discipline
among his officials, and the public security in Egypt was
never greater than during his reign. His death is attributed
to assassination.

Sa'id Pasha, his successor, was Mohammed rAli's third
son. Thanks to his enlightened government and his taste
for European civilisation, Egypt made considerable progress
during his reign, although her finances were far from being
in a satisfactory condition. He equalised the incidence of
taxation, abolished monopolies, improved the canals, completed the railways from Cairo to Alexandria and to Suez,
and, above all, zealously supported the scheme of M. Ferdinand do Lesseps for constructing a canal through the Isthmus of Suez, which was opened in 1860 under his successor.
During the Crimean war he was obliged to send an auxiliary
army and considerable sums of money to the aid of the
Porto. He died on 18th Jan. 1863, and was succeeded by
his nephew
Isma'il Pasha, the second son of Ibrahim Pasha, who was
born on that Dec. 1830. He had received the greater part
of his education in France and had there acquired the strong
preference for European institutions which characterised
him throughout his reign Unfortunately, however, he combined with this enlightenment a profound egotism and a
tendency to duplicity and cunning, which in the end. in
spite of his natural talents, proved his ruin. Most of his
innovations, such as the foundation of manufactories and the
construction of canals, railways, bridges, and telegraphs,
were planned mainly in his own interest, though of course
the country shared in the advantage, while even in the establishment of schools, the reorganisation of the system of
justice (p. G), and the like, he acted rather with an eye
to produce an impression in Europe than from real concern
for the needs of his subjects. As time went on he succeeded
in appropriating for his own use about one-fifth of the cultivable land of Egypt. In 1866, in consideration of a large






