1879.

[ $ 91.



HISTORY.



sum of money, he obtained the sanction of the Porto to a new
order of succession based on the law of primogeniture, and
in 1867 he. was raised to the rank of Khedive, or Viceroy,
having previously borne the title of Haiti, or governor of a
province only. In 1873 the Khedive obtained a new firinau
confirming and extending his privileges (independence of
administration and judiciaries; right of concluding treaties
with foreign countries; right of mining money; right of
borrowing money; permission to increase his army and navy).
The annual tribute payable to the Porte was at the same
time raised to 133,635 purses (about 681,. 3L). With regard to the warlike sum: es of the Khedive and the extension of his dominions, see pp. 29, 30. - The burden
of the public debt had now increased to upwards of 100 million pounds, one loan after another having been negotiated
by the finance minister Isma'il Siddik, who finally became
so powerful that the Khedive deposed him in 1878 and cansed him to be privately put to death. The Powers now brought
such a pressure to hear an the Khedive, that he was compelled to resign his private and family estates to the state
and to accept a ministry under the presidency of Nubar
Pasha, with the portfolio of public works entrusted to M.
lilignieres and that of finance to Mr. Rivers Wilson. This
coalition, however, soon proved unworkable; Nubar Pasha
quitted the ministry in consequence of the lihellive's encouragement of a rising among the disbanded officers of the army,
and early in 1879 the whole cabinet was replaced by a native ministry under Sheri? Pasha. The patience of the Great
Powers was now at an end; and on the initiative of Germany
they demanded from the Porte the deposition of lsma'il,
which accordingly took place on June 26th.

Isma'il was succeeded by his son Tewfik (pronounced
Teefilt) or Taufilr, under whom the government was carried
on in a more rational spirit, especially after Rial Pasha became the head of the ministry. The debts were regulated,
an international commission of liquidation was appointed,
and an extensive scheme of reform was undertaken. In Sept.,
1881, however, a military revolution broke out in Cairo,
which had for its objects the dismissal of the ministry, the
grant of a constitution, and above all the emancipation of
Egypt from European influences. The Khedive was besieged
in his palace and had to yield; he appointed Sherif president
of a new ministry and arranged for an election of Notables,
or representatives. As the latter espoused the'national'
Faust, Sherif resigned in 1% b., 1882, and Mahmud l'asha
formed a new ministry, the programme of which tallied
exactly with the demands of the national party. The new


















