1883.

1881.

1885.



msromc 109

cabinet, the soul of which was Arabi Bey, the energetic minister of war, at once proceeded, without receiving the consent of the Khedive, to pass several measures intended to
diminish the European influence in the political and financial administration of the country. The consuls general
were assured that no danger threatened the Europeans, but
were also told that any foreign intervention in the internal
affairs of Egypt would be resisted by force. The Khedive,
to whom both France and England had promised protection,
declared that he would offer a determined resistance to the
measures of the cabinet. At the end of May the British and
French fleets made their appearance before Alexandria. In
the middle of June serious disturbances broke out in that
town, in the course of which many Europeans were killed,
while the others found refuge on board the ships. On July
11th and 12th Alexandria was bombarded by the British
fleet, and on Sept. 13th the fortified camp of Arabi at Tell
el--Kebir was stormed by a British force under Sir Garnet
Wolseley. Arabi and his associates were captured and sent
as exiles to Ceylon. Since these events English influence
has been paramount in Egypt. In the autumn of 1883 a
wide-spread rebellion broke out among the Nubian tribes
of the Stdin under the leadership of Mohammed Ahmed,
the so-called'Mahdi' (p. 153), which threatened to be fatal
to the Egyptian supremacy in the Sfidau. An Egyptian
army of 10,000 men under an Englishman named Hicks
Pasha was annihilated in Nov., 1883, by the Mahdi's forces,
and a second expedition of 3500 regular troops of the Egyptian army, led by Baker Pasha, was also completely defeated
at Tokar in February, 1884. On the 18th of the same month
General Gordon, after a perilous ride across the desert, ontered Khartfim, which he had uutertaken to save from the
Mahdi; while on Mar. ist and Mar. 13th the rebel tribes
under the Mahdi's lieutenant Osman Digna were defeated at
El-Teb and Tamanieb by the British troops under Graham.
The Mahdi himself, however, still maintained his position
near Khartfim, and towards the close of the year a second
British expedition (of 7000 men) was sent out under Wolseley to rescue Gordon.

Wolseley selected the Nile route for this expedition in
preference to the shorter but more dangerous desert route
from Souakin to Berber, but the ascent of the river proved
a very tedious operation and it was not till the beginning of
1885 that he was able to concentrate his troops at Korti,
between the third and fourth cataracts (a little above EdDabbe on the Map at p. 30). The Nile here makes an enormous bend, and a detachment of 1500 men was now sent on






