1 to n nanoommlles.

in advance to cut off this bend and open communication
with Klrurtfnn from Shandy, while the main body continued
its laborious ascent of the Nile. The advanced brigade under
General Stewart accomplished its march across the Buyttda
Desert (see Map, p. 30) with complete success, gaining
severely contested victories over large bodies of the Mahdi's
followers at Alis Klee (Jan. 17th) and at a point near Illetemmeh (Jam 19th). Stewart, however, was mortally wounded at the latter engagement. The British reached the Nile
at Gubat, just above Metemmeh, on the evening of Jan.
10th, and on Jan. 24th a small body of men under Sir Chas.
Wilson set out for Kharpirn in two steamboats which Gordon
had sent to meet them. Sir Charles reached Khartfim on the
28th, but found that it had already fallen on the 26th, apparently through treachery, and that Gordon was either dead
or in the hands of the Mahdi. Upon the news of the fall of
l0artyom the British government, after consultation with
General Wolseley, decided that it was necessary to arrest the
progress of the Mahdi, and determined to dispatch reinforcements of 10,000 men to So Akin, to eo-Operate with Wolseley
from that base. The construction of a railway from Souakin
to Berber was also resolved upon. At the time the Handbook went to press the plan of Wolseley's farther operations
was not definitely known; but the loss of Khartdm and the
approach of the hot season had greatly complicated his
task, and the advanced brigade had been recalled to join
the main body. Though an absolutely trustworthy amount
of the fate of General Gordon has not yet been received,
there is almost no room to doubt that he perished at the
capture of Khartum.



IV. Hieroglyphics.
By Professor 6'. libel-5 of Leipsic.

The ancient Egyptians used three kinds of writing, the
Hieroglyphic, the Ilicmlic, and the Demotic, to which, within the
Christian era, was added the Coptic. The first and earliest is the
pure Hieroglyphic writing, which consists of figures of material objects from every sphere of nature and art, together with certain

mathematical and arbitrary symbols. Thus owl, 24L snail,
axe, U square,'! senti. This is the monumental writing,

which is nftr-uer found engraved on stone than written with a
pen. For the speedier execution of long records the Egyptians next

developed the llirzrutic writing, in which the owl (3, i. c. .3

almost ceases to Ire, recognisable, and in which we possess literary








