lllEluZMLYl'HlGS.'11 I
works of every kind except dramas. The most ancient hieratic
papyrus now extant was written in the third millennium before
Christ. The language used in the hieroglyphic and hieratic writings alike was the ancient sacred dialect of the priests. The
Dcmotic writing, which was first employed in the 9th century
before Christ, diverges so widely from the hieroglyphic that in
some of the symbols the original sign from which they were derived is either not traceable, or can only be recognised with difficulty.
The sign of the owl, for example, was curtailed to D. This writing
was chiefly used in social and commercial intercourse; as, for
example, in contracts and letters, whence it was sometimes termed
the'letter character' by the G'reeks. The more the spoken language
diverged from the sacred dialect, which assumed a fixed form at a
very early period, the more urgent became the want of a new mode
of writing appropriate to the living language. Thus arose the demotic
style, and lastly, in the 3rd century after Christ, the Coptic, in
which the language spoken at that time by the Christian Egyptians
was written, the characters being Greek, with a few supplementary
symbols borrowed from the demotic (such as { 15 sh, q f, e, M,
21': c, x j, and the syllabic'l' it). Many Coptic writings,
chiefly ol' a religious character, have been handed down to us, the
finest of them being the books of the Old and New Testament.

Down to the end of the 18th century scholars had been misled
in their endeavours to find a clue to the hieroglyphic writing by a
work of the Egyptian grammarian Horapollon, translated into
Greek, who represented the characters as being purely symbolical,
and as having each an independent meaning ofits own. At length
in 1799 M. Boussard, a French officer of artillery, discovered at
Rosetta a trilingual inscription Lpp. 449 et ser), in hieroglyphic
and demotic characters and in Greek. The demotic part of the inscription was examined by M. Silvestre dc Sacy, a French savant,
and Hr. Ackerblad, a Swede, in 1502, and, chiefly owing to the
exertions of the latter, the signification of a number of the symbols
was ascertained. In 1814-18 the hieroglyphic part of the inscription was studied by Dr. Th. Young, an English scholar, who, by
comparing it with the demotic part, succeeded in dividing it into
a number of corresponding groups, and, by directing his attention to
the eartouches (p. 117), discovered the signification of several of the
hieroglyphic symbols. In 1821 Francois Champollion, usually surnam'ed Le Jenna, who possessed an intimate acquaintance with the
Coptic language and literature, directed his attention to the hieroglyphics, and in the course of the following year discovered the
hieroglyphic alphabet, which afforded him a clue to the whole of
file ancient Egyptian literature. His method, which he has explained in his hieroglyphic grammar, though at first vehemently
opposed, soon obtained able adherents. who after his early death
in 1832 zealously took up and prosecuted the same line of research.



