112 n 1 nnooerrn Gs.



Among these were the French savants MM. Ch. Lenormant,
Mor l'HMe, and Emmanuel de Rouge', the last of whom was the
first to translate with philological accuracy a hieroglyphic text of
any length, and the Italian scholars JIM. Salvolini, Ungarelli, and
lloscllini. The most distinguished English Egyptologists of the
same school are Messrs. Osburn and Hincks, and Dr. Birch, who
has compiled the first complete dictionary of the ancient language,
and has translated numerous inscriptions. The most celebrated
German Egyptologist is Prof. Richard Lepsius (d. 1881), the founder of the critical method of prosecuting philological and historical
research. Thanks to the discoveries of these savants and others of
the same school, the study of the subject has progressed so rapidly
that the time is probably not far distant when students will be
able to translate a hieroglyphic inscription with as great philological accuracy as the work of a Greek or Latin author.

A glance at a single temple wall, or even at the annexed list
of the names of the Egyptian kings, will show the traveller that
we have not to deal here with an alphabetical mode of writing, the
signs (about 2000 in number) being far too numerous. The ancient
Egyptian writings were based on two different, but intimately connected systems: (1) the Idcogrupliic, which, by the use of well-known
objects as symbols of conceptions, sought to render its meaning intelligible to a certain class of the community; and (P) the Phonetic,
which represents words by symbols of their sounds. Although we
cannot now trace the rise and progress of hieroglyphic writing, as
even the earliest specimens manifestly belong to an already perfected system, we may at least safely assert that the idengraphic element preceded the phonetic; for, as a child employs
gestures earlier than speech, so nations use a symbolical form of
writing before they arrive at a method of expressing sounds. The
newer and more serviceable phonetic system must ultimately have
superseded the ideographic, although occasionally calling in its
aid as an auxiliary. In the perfected system, therefore, the symbols for sounds and syllables are to be regarded as the foundation
of the writing, while symbols for ideas are interspersed with them,
partly to render the meaning more intelligible, and partly for ornamental purposes, or with a view to keep up the mystic character
of the hieroglyphics.

The Phonetic signs are divided into alphabetical letters, such as
Is a, J b, m g or (c, x f, etc., and syllabic signs, such as

®- ur, ,9 M, li,, sch, 5% (mick, manor, etc. The

syllable signs may, in order to "their sounds with greater precision, have as'phonetic complements" one, several, or all of these
sounds which the name of the syllable representing the sign in






