HIEROGLYPHICS. 1 13

question contains Thus, which stands for ankh, may also

~41 D
be represented by [ 1) W, (pi) ___D% ®, (3)?
(i9 MAAM

ttttth
or [ 4) 3%. The readingis, however, facilitated by the fact that,

in order to ensure the correct pronunciation of each syllabic sign,
none but the most definite sounds were added to it. The symbol eeeh

men, for example, is never written jh, asit might be, but almost invariably fl or £5. It represents a ehess-board with
AM

figures. The ideographic signs, or determinatives, are placed as

explanatory adjuncts after the phonetically written groups. They
are indispensable in elucidating the signification, for the Egyptian
language, having been arrested in its development, is poor, and full
.4

of homonyms and synonyms. The symbol WW (ink-h, for ex
ample, means'to live','to swear','the ear','the mirror", and'the
goat'. The reader would easily fall into errors, such as mistaking
fink ]; nefer for'a beautiful life' instead of'a beautiful goat', if the
determinative, or elass, .sign did not come to his aid, and show to
what category of ideas the object belonged. Thus, after dnkh, the
goat, the Egyptians either placed a figure of that animal, or a piece

of hide with a tail, which served as a common symbol for all
quadrupeds The symbol used to represent a particular word is
termed a special, while one chosen to denote a class is termed a

general, determinative. An elephant% placed after the group
of-u, ab,'the elephant', is a special determinative, while a

lock of hair in placed after "R senem,'the mourning, is a

general determinative, e a lock of hair being the conventional emblem
of grief, as the men were in the habit of cutting off their hair in
token of sorrow. A word is frequently followed by several determinatives. Thus - fish is'the cedar'; but the wood of the
tree being scented, the group representing fish was not only fol
lowed by the figure of a tree, but also by the symbol G, which

signifies that a perfumed object is spoken of. The special determinative always precedes the general. Symbols that were not
capable of being very clearly engraved on stone were sometimes
omitted, and the special determinative given alone. Instead of
BAEDEKER'S Egypt I. 2nd Ed. 8



