r RELIGION. 125

Cleorthose who held this doctrine there could be no original act of
ation, and no plurality of gods; but a metaphysical conception
difficult of apprehension could not be propounded to the great

my of the people. For the use of such persons it was, therefore,

Emplifled, and clothed with allegorical forms, through the medium

"which they might behold it as through a veil, somewhat obscured,
at at the same time embellished and sham of its terrors. This
onstituted the EXOTERIC DOCTRINE, with which was connected
the theogony, or theory of the origin and descent of the divinities
who represented the various forces and phenomena of nature. These
gods, however, though not existent from all eternity, were neither
created nor begotten, but were regarded as having been self-created
in the wombs of their own mothers, and are therefore spoken of as
'their own fathers",'their own sons', and the'husbands of their
mothers'. The deities accordingly are seldom spoken of as single
individuals, butin triads, as father, mother, and son (comp. p. 130).
The primary source from which all life proceeds, the first cause
of all things, was clothed with a personal form, called Nun. The
principle oflight, and the creative power of nature, which implants
in matter the germs of existence and light, was Khepera, or the
scarabzeus with the sun's disk, whose emblem was the beetle (soarubaeus racer). As that insect rolls up into a ball the eggs which
produce its offspring, and was supposed to have no female, so this
deity was believed to have concealed within the globe of the world
the germs of organic life. Ptah is the greatest of the gods, and is
the embodiment ofthe organising and motive power developed from
moisture (Nun). It is he who imparts form to the germs sown by
Khepera, andunder the name ofSekhem Nefer breaks the ball rolled
along by the scarabaaus, or in other words the egg of the universe,
from which emerge his children, the elements and the forms of
heaven and earth. Ra, a deity who beam seventy-live different
forms, at first appears in the Nun under the name of Tum, or the
evening sun; during his passage through the lower hemisphere,
that of night, he is known as Klmum, and is born anew on the
next morning of the creation, bursting forth in the form of a child
(Harmachis) from a lotus-flower floating on the Nun. Evening and
night precede the morning and day; and Amenthes, or the infernal
regions, were believed to have existed before the upper regions
which formed the scene of human life.
After the breaking of the egg of the world, the universe is resolved into three empires: - (l) The heavenly Nut, represented
as a woman, bending over the earth, on whose back float
the vessel of the sun, the planets, and the constellations. (A) Seb,
or the earth, which possesses the power of eternal rejuvenescence,
and was regarded by the Egyptians as the symbol of eternity, a
deity somewhat resembling the Greek Chronos. (3) The Infernal
Regions, which are presided over by Ptah, the power productive of






