"

new forms, the germinating principle of seeds, and god of light
and heat Lsometimes represented in the shape ofa deformed child),
and, after him, by Ra, who appears from the inscription on the royal
tombs at Thebes to have been a purely pantheistie conception, the
'frame ofthe universe' and'the universe', and whose sphere therefore embraced the lower aswell as the upper regions. [ See also
Ra and Autumn.)

The SACRED ANIMALS and the MIXED Forms, which generally
consist of human bodies with the heads of animals, frequently recur as companions of the gods, or are used as emblems of the deities
themselves. In each case those animals were selected whose
inherent dispositions and habits corresponded to the power or
phenomenon of nature personified in the god. Specimens of these
animals were kept in and near the temples, and the finest of them
were embalmed after death and revered in the form of mummies
Thus, the maternal divinities were appropriately represented
by the cow, the patient mother and nurse; the goddess of love, the
bride of Ptah, was represented with the head of a fierce lion or a eat;
the crocodile was sacred to Sebek, the god who caused the waters of
the Nile to rise; and the hawk, which soars towards heaven like
the sun, was dedicated to Ra. The symbol of Ptah was the black
Apis bull, whose great power of generation seemed analogous to
the never ceasing creative energy of the black soil of Egypt

TUE EGYPTIAN Goes. The chief of the gods, as we have
already mentioned, was Ptah, the Greek Hephaestus. He was the
ancient god ofMemphis, who delivered to Ra the germs of creation,
and was assisted in his labours bythe seven Khnumu or architects
As from him were supposed to emanate the laws and conditions
of existence, he is also styled'lord of truth'. He is represented in
the form of a mummy, but with his hands protruding from the

126 RELIGION,

and grasping the sceptre. The neck-ornament called'menat' is generally

attached to his back, and on his head he usually wears a smith's cap.
He sometimes occurs with a scarabaeus instead of a head. In view
of his connection with the doctrine of immortality and with the
infernal regions, he sometimes appears in the inscriptions as PtahSelmr- Osiris, who prescribes to the sun that has set, as well as to
the mummies of the dead, the conditions under which they may
rise again and enter on a new life. The'primzeval Ptah' is also
spoken of as the head of the solar gods, and also occasionally as the
creator of the egg, from which, according to an older myth, the
sun and the moon came forth. Thence, too, is derived his name,
which signifies'the opener'. By his side are often placed the
goddess Salt-hat (Pasht), and his son Imliotep [ zlisculapius ].

His sacred animal was the Apia bull, which was the offspring






