RELIGION. 127

of a white cow impregnated by a moonbeam. In order to represent
Apis worthily, a ball had to be sought which possessed a black hide,
a white triangle on his forehead, a light spot on his

back in the form of an eagle, and under his tongue
an excrescence shaped like the sacred scarabzeus.
After his death the representative of Apis was
embalmed and preserved in a sarcophagus of stone
(p. 386). He was the symbol of the constantly
operative fashioning power of the deity, and is on
that account represented as the son of the moon,
which, though never changing, appears to refashion itself every hour. The era of time named
after Apis was a lunar period, containing 309 mean
synodic months, which almost exactly corresponded with 25 Egyptian years.

Ra, the great god of Heliopolis (On) in Lower
Egypt, as the king of gods and men, ranks next to
Ptah, and is, from the esoteric point of view, the
sun who illumines the world with the light of his
eyes, and the awakener of life. He rises as a child,
under the name of Harmachis CHar-em-khutO, at
midday he is called Ra, and at sunset he is represented as Tum, an old man subduing the
enemies of Ra, who obstruct his entrance to the Ptah.
lower regions which he traverses at night. During
his course through the nether world he becomes the ram-headed
Khnum (p. 129), or the nocturnal link between Turn and Har-.
machis, or evening and morning. As man in the region ofthe shades
has to undergo many trials, so the ship of the sun, as soon as he
has crossed the western horizon, no longer sails along the blue back
of the goddess Nut, but along the sinuosities of the serpent Apep,
the enemy of the setting sun, who is subdued and held in bondage
by the companions of Ra.

In rising Ra is born, and in setting he dies; but his life is
daily renewed by an act of self-procreation taking place daily in
the bosom of nature, which was termed Isis, Mum, or Hathor. This
goddess is frequently called the ruler of the nether regions, and is
represented with the head of a cow, or in the form of a cow, which
every morning gives birth to the young sun. Twelve human figures,
each bearing the orb of the sun or a star on his head, represent the
hours ofthe day and night. The animals specially sacred to Ra were
the hawk; the Upper Egyptian li ght-eolo ured Mnevis bull, which also
belonged at a later period to Ammon Ra, and a specimen of which
had even before that time been kept in the temple of the sun at
Heliopolis; and, lastly, lions with light skins. The Phoenix, or bird
from the land of palms, called by the Egyptians henna, which,





