128

RELIGION.

according to the well known myth, awakes to new life after being
burned, and brings its ashes to Heliopolis once every five hundred



lIarmachis. the great
god.





years, was also associated with the worship
of Ra. As Apis is associated with Ptah, so
this bird by the side of Ra is a symbol of
the soul of Osiris. - Ra is generally represented with the head of a hawk, and coloured red. He holds in his hands the symbols of life and sovereignty, and wears on
his head a disk with the Urmis serpent, or
basilisk. According to the esoteric andpantheistic construction of the inscriptions on
the tombs of the kings, Ra is the great Universe (:6, raw), and the gods themselves are
merely so many impersonations of his
various attributes (see Ammon Ra, p. 138).

Tum, or Alum. a manifestation of Ra,
whose name is perhaps akin to temi, signifying the universe, was first worshipped in
Lower Egypt, particularly at Heliopolis and
at the city of Pa-tum, that is,'the place of
Tum', the Pithom of Scripture. His rites
were also celebrated in Upper Egypt at an
early period. He is one of the oldest of the
gods, having existed'on the waters' in the
dark chaos of the embryonic world, prior to
the first sunrise, or birth of Harmachis from
the lotus flower. According to the later exoteric views he was the setting sun, the
harbinger of the coolness of evening. Under
his guidance mankind was created by
Khnum, and he was the dispenser of the
welcome northerly breezes. He was also the
approved warrior against the dark powers
of the infernal regions which obstruct the
progress of the sun's bark, and is represented as a bearded man with a combined
Upper and Lower Egyptian crown, or the
orb of the sun, on his head, and the emblems
of sovereignty and life in his hands. As the
creator he sometimes has a scarabaaus for
ahead; as Nefer-Tum he has the head of
a lion, surmounted by a hawk crowned with

lotus flowers, and holds an ut'a eye

Tum of Heliopolis, 10" ] in his hand. As representing the setting of

of the world.

the sun preparatory to its rising again, he






