130 RELIGION.

from which name an attempt has been made to derive that of the
Greek goddess Themis, like whom Ma is represented as blind, or
at least with bandaged eyes.

Govs or THE Osuus AND Isis ORDER. We one to Plutareh a
detailed account of this myth, which has been uniformly corroborated by the monuments, and which may be briefly told as follows.

Isis and Osiris were
the children of Rhea and
Uhronos, that is, of Nut,
the goddess of space, and
of Seb, the god of the earth,
which, owing to its eternal
rejuvenescence and imperishableness, symbolises time. While still in the
womb of their mother, that
is, in the bosom of space,
the childreubocame united, and from their union
sprang Horus. Typhon and
Nephthys, children of the
same parents, likewise
married each other. Osiris
and Isis reigned as a happy
royal pair, bestowing on
Egypt the blessings of
wealth and prosperity.
Typhon conspired against Osiris, and at a banquet persuaded him
to enter a cunningly wrought chest, which he and his seventy-two
accomplices then closed and threw into the Nile. The river carried
the chest northwards, and so down to the sea by way of the estuary
of'l'anis; and the Waves at length washed it ashore near the Phenniciau liyblus. Meanwhile Isis roamed in distress throughout the
country, seeking her lost husband; and she at length succeeded in
discovering his coffin, which she carried to a sequestered spot and
concealed. She then set out to visit her son Horus, who was being
educated at Rum. During her absence Typhon, while engaged in a
boar-hunt, foundthe bodyofthe god, cutitiuto fourteeupieces. and
scattered them in every direction. As soon as Isis learned what had
happened, she collected the fragments, and wherever one had been
found erected amonurnent on the spot to its memory; and this accounts for the numerous tombs of Osiris mentioned as existing in
Egypt and elsewhere. Osiris, however, was not dead. He had continued his existence and his reign in the lowcrregions, and after his
burial he visited his son Horns, whom he armed and trained for battle.
The young god soon began a war against Typhon, and was at length
victorious, although he did not succeed ill totally destroying his enemy.





















The mythological Trinity or Triad.
Osiris. Horus. Isis.





