RELIGION. 131




iris is the principle of light, while Typhon is that of darkness,
which Osiris defeats and banishes to the internal regions. Isis Ilathor
mourns over his disappearance, follows him towards the
West, where she gives birth
to Horus, who annihilates
darkness and restores his
father to his lost position.
When Ra is termed the soul
of Osiris, the meaning is that
he renders visible the hidden
principle of light (Osiris).
When, on the other hand,
Osiris is regarded as emblem'
atical of the principle of
moisture, the most perfect
embodiment of which is the
god Hapi, or the Nile, Typhon
and his seventy-two companions represent the days of
drought. Like the dead body
of Osiris, the water flows towards the North, and the languishing Isis, that is, the
fruit-bearing earth. mourns over the loss of the fertilising power;
but this is for a short period only, for lIorus soon vanquishes Typhon in the southern districts, and the rising Nile again begins to
impregnate the black soil with abundant fertility. Lastly, when
Osiris is regarded as the principle of life, lsis, the earth, is the
scene of the operation of that principle, while Typhon represents
death, and Horns the resurrection. If we regard Osiris, as the
monuments so frequently do, as a pure and perfect being, the
principle of the good and the beautiful, in which case he receives the
surname of Un-Nefcr, we recognise in Typhon the discords with
which life is so replete, but which seem to be permitted only in order
that the purity of the harmonies into which they are resolved through
the intervention of Horus may he the more thoroughly appreciated.
Osiris, according to the esoteric doctrine, is also the sovereign of
the lower regions and the judge of souls, which, if found pure, are
permitted to unite with his. The dead, therefore, do not merely go
to Osiris, but actually become Osiris. Osiris is always represented
with a human head. He either sits as a king on his throne, or appears in the form of a mummy. He always wields the scourge and
crook, and sometimes other emblems also. The crown of Upper
Egypt which he wears on his head is usually garnished before and
behind with the ostrich feathers of truth. Beside him, even in
very ancient representations, stands a kind of thyrsus or entwined

"



Osiris, prince of eternity.



