132 RELIGION

rod, to which a panther-skin, the garb of his priests, is attached.
In consequence of his function of promoting vegetable life, his
wanderings, and perhaps also on account of this staff and skin, he
was termed Dionysos [ or Bacchus ] by the Greeks.

Typhon-Seth. The name Typhon is most probably of Greek
origin. The Egyptians named him Seth, or Sutekh, and represented

him as a fabulous animal N, or with the head of this animal,

and subsequently as an ass, an animal which was sacred to him, or
with an ass's head. His name is met with in the most remote period, but he appears originally to have been worshipped merely as
a god of war and the tutelary deity of foreigners. He is usually
styled the brother of Horns, and the two are called the Reliehui. or
hostile twins, who wounded each other in the battle above described. At a later period, after the god of battles and of foreigners
had shown himself permanently unfavourable to the Egyptians,
they ceased to render service to him, and erased his name from
the monuments on which it occurred, and even from the cartouches
of the most highly extolled kings. With regard to his connection
with the myth of Osiris and lsis, see p. 130.

Nephthys, the wife of Seth, was called by the Greeks Aphrodite
or Nike (Victory), probably on account of her being the wife of
the god of war. Her proper sphere was the
nether world. In the upper world she occurs as
the nurse or instructress of the youthful Horns,
and she appears with lsis, mourning and beating
her forehead, at the funeral rites of Osiris,
whom she had loved, and to whom, being mistaken by him in the dark for lsis. she had borne
Anubis She is also associated with Osiris and
Isis, with the youthful Horus and Isis, and
even, as one of a tetrad, with Osiris, lsis, and
Horns She is usually represented with the sym
MIT: [ i.e. nab- (tat, mistress of the house) on

her head, which is adorned with the vulture
cap. and grasping in her hands the flower.,
sceptre and the symbol of life.
"1,4,", mo, ,h,,, ,.s-L Anubis was the guide of the dead to the
infernal regions and the guardian of Hades, of
which he is termed the master. In the form of a jackal, or with
the head of a jackal, he presides over funeral rites and guards the
kingdom of the West.

Horus, who occurs in many different forms, invariably represents
the upper world or region of light, and also regeneration, resurrection, and the ultimate triumph of good over evil, of life over
death, of light over darkness, and of truth over falsehood. He is












