RELIGION 139

relation to human affairs. He is the'destroyer of enemies", he aids
mankind in the battle of life, and he heals the sick. To his head
the moon is attached by the infantine lock. From his wanderings as
the god of the moon, and from the vigour with which he destroyed
evil spirits, he was identified with Heracles by the Greeks.

Doctrine of Immortality. From the account of the worship of
Isis and Osiris it is obvious that the Egyptians believed in the immortality of the soul (whence arose the prevalent worship of
ancestors ], in amoral responsibility, and in a future state ofrcwards
and punishments. The doctrine with regard to the life of the soul
after death was not, however, at all times and in all places the
same. According to the Egyptian belief, every human being consisted of three distinct parts, which during the period of life were
closely united: (1) the body, a portion of matter; C'?) the'shi,
or soul, which belonged to the nether world and ultimately returned thither; and (3) the'Ichu', an emanation of the divine
intelligence. Each of these elements could be separated from
the others, but whatever changes it underwent, it was immutable
in quantity and quality. As the god of the sun is always the
same and yet hourly different, being at first Horus, then Ra, next
Tum, and finally Khnum, so it was with the soul and the intelligence which fills and illuminates it, and which, as soon as
the gates of the tomb are opened for its reception, speaks and acts
for it. Once within the gates of Amenthes, the soul had to undergo
many trials. Ferocious beasts had to be conquered, demons to be
subdued, and castles to be stormed, and all this was to be done
with the aid of texts and hymns written on papyrus and scarabaei,
ut'a eyes, and other amulets swathed in the bandage of the mummy.
At length the soul reached the hall of double justice, where the
heart in its vase If) was placed in one scale and the goddess of
truth in the other. Horns and a cynocephalus conducted the process
of weighing, Anubis superintended, Thoth recorded the result, and
Osiris with forty-two counsellors pronounced sentence. Ifthe heart
was found too light, the soul was condemned so suffer the torments
of hell, or to continue its existence in the bodies of animals, within
a certain period after which it returned to its original body to begin
life anew, and had afterwards to undergo another trial by the judges
of Hades. lfthe heart was found sufficiently heavy, Osiris restored
it to the soul; the'sahu' might then return to its mummy; its
intelligence, after a period of purification in the regions of the
blessed, might unite with the divinity from which it had emanated,
and, merged in Horus, Osiris, etc, might traverse the heavens in
the boat of the sun, or walk anew among the living in any form it
pleased. Finally both the'sahn' and the intelligence were reunited to the dead body they had quitted, which its mummification
had preserved from decay, and which awaited the return of the soul
from Amenthes or from its sojourn in the bodies of animals.



