140

Index to the Egyptian Deities.
Phoenix, page 127.





Anuluis. page 137.
Anubis. wr..

Anukeh, r..? 0,

Apep, the serpent, 135. Muth, 135. Sebek, 130.

Horus, 130, 132. Selrhct. 1315. 126.
Immortality. doctrine Nefer-Tum, 123. Seth (Typhon). 125.
Osiris, 130. 132.

VII. Doctrines of El-Islam.

Manners and Customs of the Mohammedan.
(By Prof. 800m, of Tiibingen.)

Mohammed'l', as a religious teacher, took up a position hostile
to the'age of ignorance and folly', as he called heathenism. The
revelation which he believed it was his mission to impart was,
as he declared, nothing new. His religion was of the most remote
antiquity, all men being supposed by him to be born Muslims,
though surrounding circumstances might subsequently cause them
to fall away from the true religion. Even in the Jewish and Christian scriptures (the Thorah, Psalms, and Gospels), he maintained,
there were passages referring to himself and El-Islam, but these
passages had been suppressed, altered, or misinterpreted. So far
as Mohammed was acquainted with Judaism and Christianity, he
disapproved of the rigour of their ethics, which were apt to



+ 3lol.sammed ('the praised'. or'to be praised') was a scion on the
paternal side of the family of llz'ishim. a less important branch of the
nohle family oflfnreish. who were settled at Mecca. and were custodians
of the Ka'lm. His father'Abdallah died shortly before his hirth (about
5-0). In his sixth year his mother Amina took him on a journey to
Medina. but died on her w v home. The boy was then educated by his
grandfather 1Al, d el-Nut.! alih. and. utter the death of the latter two years
later. by his uncle Ahu Tfilih. For several years Diniiamniud tended
sheep. lle afterwards undertook commercial journeys, at first in company
""Ih his uncle. and then, when about twenty-lire years of age, in the
sermon of the widow khadija, who became his lirst Wife. (in one of these
Journeys he is said to have become acquainted with the Christian monk
Bahira at It: grit.

.Abot that period a reaction in the religious life of the Arabs had
5-1 In, and when Mohammell was about forty years of age he too was
struck "ilh the vanity ofidolatry. Hu utrered 1111111 clulepsy, and during
Isis 1111.1 ks 111 ined he received revelations from heaven. He can scarcely,
lhererure. he called nu inipostor in the ordinary sense. A dream which
he had 1111 111 ilirur, near Mecca. gave him the lirst impulse, and he soon






