DOCTRINES or tat--15min. 141

degenerate into a body of more empty forms, while he also rejected
their dogmatic teaching as utterly false. Above all he repudiated
whatever seemed to him to savour of polytheism, including the
doctrine of the Trinity, as'assigning partners' to the one and
only God. Every human being who possesses a capacity for belief
he considered bound to accept the new revelation of El-Islam,
and every Muslim is bound to promulgate this faith. Practically,
however, this stringency was afterwards relaxed, as the Muslims
found themselves obliged to enter into pacific treaties with nations
beyond the confines of Arabia. A distinction was also drawn between peoples who were already in possession of a revelation, such
as Jews, Christians, and Sabians, and idolaters, the last of whom
were to be rigorously persecuted.

The Muslim creed is embodied in the words:'There is no God
but God (Allah i), and Mohammed is the prophet of God' (M iMha
itt' Allah). This formula, however,
contains the most important doctrine only; for the Muslim is bound
to believe in three cardinal points: (1) God and the angels, (A)
written revelation and the prophets, and (3) the resurrection, judgment, eternal life, and predestination.

(1 ]. Gen AND THEANGBLS. According to comparatively modern
inscriptions ('Syrie Centrale', pp. 9, 10) it would appear that the
emphatic assertion of the unity of God is by no means peculiar to
Mohammedanism. As God is a Spirit, embracing all perfection
within Himself, ninety-nine of his different attributes were afterwards gathered from the Koran, each of which is represented by a
head of the Muslim rosary. Great importance is also attached to
the fact that the creation of the world was effected by a simple effort
of the divine will. (God said'Let there be', and there was.)

The story of the creation in the Koran is taken from the Bible,
with variations from Rabbinical, Persian, and other sources. God
first created his throne; beneath the throne there was water; the

began with ardent enthusiasm to promulgate monotheism, and to want
his hearers against incurring the pains of helL It is uncertain whether
Mohammed himself could read and write. His new doctrine was called
Islam, or subjection to God. At first he made converts in his own family
only, and the'Muslims' were persecuted by the Meccans. Many of them,
and at length Mohammed himself (622), accordingly emigrated to Medina,
where the new religion made great progress. After the death of Khadija,
Mohammad took several other Wives, partly from political motives.

He now endeavoured to stir up the Meccans, and war broke out in
consequence. He was victorious at Bedr, but lost the battle of the Uhud.
His military campaigns were thenceforth incessant. He obtained great
influence over the Beduins, and succeeded in uniting them politically.
In 630 the Muslims at length captured the town of Mecca, and the idols
in it were destroyed. Mohammed's health, however, had been completely
undermined by his unremitting exertions for about twenty-four years;
he died on 8th June, 632, at Medina, and was interred there.

f Allah is also the name of God used by the Jews and Christians
who speak Arabic.



