142 I) 0b'TlllNiitl or 1-11leth

earth was then formed. In order to keep the earth steady, G
caused it to be supported by an angel, placed on a huge rock, which
in its turn rests on the back and horns of the bull of the world.
And thus the earth is kept in its proper position.

himultaneous with the creation of the firmament was that of the
(min (demons), beings occupying a middle rank between men
and angels, some of them believing, others unbelieving. These
gin" are frequently mentioned in the hora", and at a later period
numerous fables regarding them were invented. To this day the
belief in them is very general. When the ginn became arrogant, an
angel was ordered to banish them, and he accordingly drove them
to the mountains of liit by which the earth is surrounded, whence
they occasionally make incursions. Adam was then created, on the
evening of the sixth day, and the Muslims on that account observe
Friday as their Sabbath. After the creation of Adam came the fall
of the angel who conquered the ginn. As he refused to bow down
before Adam he was exiled, and thenceforward called 1am, or the
desil. After this, Adam himself fell, and became a solitary wanderer, but was afterwards re-united to Eve at Mecca, where the
sacred stone in the K a'ba derives its black colour from Adam's tears.
At Jidda, the harbour of Mecca, the tomb of live is pointed out to
this day. Adam is regarded as the first orthodox M uslim; for God,
from the earliest period, provided for a revelation.

Besides the creative activity of God, his maintaining power is
specially emphasised, as being constantly employed for the preservation of the world. His instruments for this purpose are the
angels. They are the bearers of God's throne, and execute his
commands. They also act as mediators between God and men,
being the constant attendants of the latter. When a Muslim prays
(which he does after the supposed fashion of the angels in heaven).
it will be observed that he turnshis face at the conclusion first over
his right and then over his left shoulder. He thereby greets the
recording angels who stand on each side of every believer, one on
the right to record his good, and one on the left to record his evil
deeds. The traveller will also observe the two stones placed over
every graveiu alluslim burial-ground. ly these sit the two angels
who examine the deceased, and in order that the creed may not
escape his memory it is incessantly chanted by the conductor of
the funeral.

While there are legions of good angels, who differ in form, but
are purely ethereal in substance. there are also innumerable satelliti's of Satan, who seduce men to error and teach them sorcery.
'l'hey endeavour to pry into the seems of heaven, to prevent which
they are pelted with falling stars by the good angels. (This last is
a notion of very great antiquity.)

i'? l. Nihrvrrrs lhwunnvox AND THE Pnorniz'rs. The necessity
for a revelation is based on the dogma of original sinlessness, and














