' DOCTRINES or EL-ISLAM. 143

on the natural inclination of every human being towards Islamism.
The earliest men were all believers, but they afterwards fell away
from the true faith. A revelation therefore became necessary, and
it is attained partly by meditation, and partly by direct communication. The prophets are very numerous, amounting in all, it is
said, to 124,000; but their ranks are very various. Some of them
have been sent to found new forms of religion, others to maintain
those already existing. The prophets are free from all gross sins;
and they are endowed by God with power to work miracles, which
power forms their credentials; nevertheless they are generally
derided and disbelieved. The greater prophets are Adam, Noah,
Abraham, Jesus, and Mohammed.

Adam is regarded as a pattern of human perfection, and is
therefore called the'representative of Gory. - Noah's history is
told more than once in the Koran, where it is embellished with
various additions, such as that he had a fourth, but disobedient
son. The preaching of Noah and the occurrence of the Deluge are
circumstantially recorded. The ark is said to have rested on Mt.
Joi, near Mossul. The giant'Uj, son of'Enak, survived the flood.
He was of fabulous size, and traditions regarding him are still
popularly current

Abraham (Ibrahim) is spoken of by Mohammed as a personage
of the utmost importance, and in the Koran, as well as in the Bible
he is styled the'friend of God' (comp. James ii. 23). Mohammed
professed to teach the'religion of Abraham', and he attached special
importance to that patriarch as having been the progenitor of the
Arabs through Ishmael. Abraham was therefore represented as
having built the Ka.'ba, where his footprints are still shown. One of
the most striking passages in the Koran is in Sfireh vi. 76, where
Abraham is represented as first acquiring a knowledge of the one
true God. His father was a heathen, and Nimrod at the time of
Abraham's birth had ordered all new-born children to be slain (a
legend obviously borrowed from the Slaughter of the Innocents at
Bethlehem); Abraham was therefore brought up in a cavern, which
he quitted for the first time in his fifteenth year.'And when night
overshadowed him he beheld a star, and said _ This is my Lord;
but when it set, he said - I love not those who disappear. And
when he saw the moon rise, he said again - This is my Lord, but
when he saw it set, he exclaimed - Surely my Lord has not
guided me hitherto that I might go astray with eating man Now
when he saw the sun rise, he spake again - That is my Lord; he
is greater. But when it likewise set, he exclaimed - 0 people,
I will have nothing to do with what ye idolatrously worship; for
I turn my face steadfastly towards Him who created heaven and
earth out of nothing; and I belong not to those who assign Him
partners 1'

Besides the slightly altered Bible narratives, we find a story of






