l H DOCTRINES op 151,431.8i1.



Abraham baring been cast into a furnace by Nimrod for having
destroyed idols. and having escaped unhurt (probably borrowed
from the miracle of the three men in the fiery furnace).

The history of Moses, as given in the Koran, presents no
features of special interest. He is called the'speaker of God'; he
wrote the'l'horah, and is very frequently mentioned. - In the story
of Jesus Mohammed has perpetrated an absurd anachronism, Mary
being confounded with Miriam, the sister of Moses. Jesus is tyalled rlsi" t in the Koran; but'Isl is properly Esau, a name of reproach
among the Jews; and this affords us an indication of the source
whence Mohammad derived most of his information. On the other
hand, Jesus is styled the'Word of God', as in the Gospel of St.
John. A parallel is also drawn in the Koran between the creation
of Adam and the nativity of Christ; like Adam, Jesus is said to
have been a prophet from childhood, and to have wrought miracles
which surpassed those of all other prophets, including even Mohammed himself. He proclaimed the Gospel, and thus eonllrmcd
the Thorah; but in certain particulars the latter was abrogated by
him. Another was crucified in his stead, but God caused Jesus
also to die for a few hours before taking him up into heaven.

Modern investigation shows with increasing clearness howlittle
originality these stories possess, and how Mohammcd merely repeated what he had learned from very mixed sources (first Jewish, and
afterwards Christian also), sometimes entirely misunderstanding
the information thus acquired. The same is the case with the
numerous narratives about other so-called prophets. Even Alexander the Great is raised to the rank of a prophet, and his campaign
in India is represented as having been undertaken in the interests
of monotheism. Alexander is also associated with the Khiglr, or
animating power of nature, which is sometimes identified with
Elijah and St. George. The only other matter ofinterest connected
with Mohammed's religious system is the position which he himself
occupies in it. Moses and Christ prophesied his advent, but the
passages concerning him in the Thorah and Gospels have been suppressed. lie is the promised Paraclete, the Comforter (St. John
xiv. Hi), the last and greatest of the prophets; but he does not
profess to be entirely free from minor sins. Ile confirms previous
revelations, but his appearance has superseded them. His whole
doctrine is a miracle, and it therefore does not require to be
confirmed by special miracles. After his death, however, a number
of miracles were attributed to him, and although he wasnot exactly
deified, the position assigned to him is that ofthe principal mediator
between God and man. The apotheosis of human beings is, moreover, an idea foreign to the Semitic mind, and it was the Persians
who llrst elevated'Ali and the imams [ literally reciters of prayers)
who succeeded him to the rank of supernatural beings.

The l.ionis itself was early believed to be of entirely super







