F

natural origin. The name signifies'rehearsal', or'reading', and
the book is divided into parts called S & rchs. The first revelation
vouchsafed to the Prophet took place in the'blessed night' in the
year 609. With many interruptions, the'sending down' of the
Koran extended over twenty-three years, until the whole book,
which had already existed on'well-preserved tables' in heaven,
was in the prophet's possession. During the time of the'Abbaside
khalifs it was a matter ofthe keenest controversy whether the Koran
was created or uncreated. (The Oriental Christians have likewise
always manifested a great taste for subtle dogmatic questions, such
as the Procession of the Holy Ghost) The earlier, or ill eccan Sfirehs,
which on account of their brevity are placed at the end of the book,
are characterisedby great freshness and vigour of style. They are in
rhyme, but only partially poetic in form. In the longer an-ehs ofa
later period the style is more studied and the narrative often
tedious. The Koran is nevertheless regarded as the greatest masterpiece of Arabic literature. The prayers ofthe Muslims consist almost
exclusively of passages from this work, although they are entirely
ignorant of its real meaning. Even by the early commentators
much of the Igor-an was imperfectly understood, for Mohammed,
although extremely proud of his'Arabic Book', was very partial
to the use of all kinds of foreign words. The translation of the
lgoranheingprohibited, Persian, Turkish, and Indian children learn
it entirely by rote.

The Koran has been translated into English, French, German, Italian,
and Latin. The best English translations are those of Sale (1734; with
a'preliminary discourse" and copious notes; published in a cheap form
by Messrs Warns & 00., London) and Rodwell (London, 1861).

(3). FUTURE STATE AND PREDESTINATION. The doctrine of the
resurrection has been grossly corrupted by the Koren and by subsequent tradition; but its main features have doubtless been borrowed from the Christians, as has also the appearance of Antichrist,
and the part to be played by Christ at the Last Day. On that day
Christ will establish El-Islam as the religion of the world. With
him will re-appear El-Mahdi, the twelfth Imam (p. 153), and the
beast of the earth o. rig), while the peoples of Gog and Magog
will burst the barrier beyond which they were banished by Alexander
the Great (p. 144 ]. The end of all things will be ushered in by the
trumpet-blasts of the angel Asrafil; the first of these blasts will kill
every living being; a second will awaken the dead. Then follows
the Judgment; the righteous cross to Paradise by a bridge of a
hair's breadth, while the wicked fall from the bridge into the abyss
of hell. Some Muslims believe in a kind of limbo, like that of the
Hebrews and Greeks, while others maintain that the souls of the
dead proceed directly to the gates of Paradise. At the Judgment
every man is judged according to the books of the recording angels
(p. 142). The good have the book placed in their right hands,
but it is placed in the left hands of the wicked, bound behind

I BAEDEKER'S Egypt L 2nd Ed. 10



