146 DOCTRINES CD" ELJSLKM.

their backs. The scales in which good and evil deeds are weighed
play an important part in (loci ing the soul's fate, a detail which
gave rise to the subsequent doctrine of the efficacy of works. This
doctrine is carried so far that works of supererogation are believed
to he placed to the credit of the believer. The demons and animals,
too, must be judged. Hall, as well as heaven, has different regions;
and El-lslam also assumes the existence of a purgatory, from which
release is possible. Paradise is depicted by Mohammed, in consonanee with his thoroughly sensual character, as a place of entirely
material delights.

The course of all events, including the salvation or perdition
of every individual, is, according to the strict interpretation of the
Koran, absolutely predestined; although several later sects have
endeavoured to modify this terrible doctrine. It is these views,
however, which give rise to the pride of the Muslims. By virtue of
their faith they regard themselves as certainly elect, and as a rule
they make no attempt to convert others, as they have no power to
alter the irrevocable decrees of God.

In the second place the Koran is considered to contain, not only a
standard of ethics, but also the foundation of a complete code of law.

The MORALITY of lil-lsliim was specially adapted by its founder
to the character of the Arabs. Of duties to one's neighbour, charity
is the most highly praised, and instances of its practice are not
unfreqnent. Hospitality is much practised by the Beduins, and by
the peasantry also in these districts which are not overrun with
travellers. Frugality is another virtue of the Arabs, though too apt
with them to degenerate into avarice and cupidity. The law of debtor
and creditor is lenient. Lending money at interest is forbidden by
the lforan, but is nevertheless largely practised, the lowest rate
in Syria being 12 per cent. The prohibition against eating unclean
animals, such as swine, is older than El-lslam, and, like the prohibition of intoxicating drinks, is based on sanitary considerations.
Wine, however, and even brandy, are largely consumed by the upper
classes, especially among the Turks.

Although POLYGAMY is sanctioned, every Muslim being permitted to have four wives at a time, yet among the bulk of the population monogamy is far more frequent, owing to the difficulty of
providing for several wives and families at once. The wives, moreover, arc very apt to quarrel, to the utter destruction of domestic
peace, unless the husband can afford to assign them separate houses.
Few men remain unmarried. The treatment of women as mere ehattels, which is of very remote Oriental origin, constitutes the greatest
defect of the system of El-lslam, although the position of the female
sex among the Oriental Christians and Jews is little better than
among the Muslims. It is probably owing to this low estimate of










