DOCTRINES OF Fm-Libr. 147



women that the Muslims generally dislike to see them praying or
occupying themselves with religion. The practice of wearing veils
is not confined to the Muslim women, but is universal in the East.
An Oriental lady would, indeed regard it as an affront to be permitted to mingle in society with the same freedom as European
ladies. Even in the Christian churches, the place for women is
often separated from the men's seats by a railing. The peasant and
Beduin women, on the other hand, are often seen unveiled. The
ease with which lil-lslém permits divorce is due to Mohammed's personal proclivities. A single word from the husband suffices to banish
the wife from his house, but she retains the marriage-portion
which she has received from her husband. The children are brought
up in great subjection to their parents, often showing more fear than
love for them.

The repetition of PRAYERS five times daily forms one of the
chief occupations of faithful Muslims. The hours of prayer (adlin)
are proclaimed by the mueddins (or muezzins) from the minarets of
the mosques: (l) Maghrib, a little after sunset; (Pi)'Ashu, nightfall, about 11/2 hour after sunset; (3) Subh, daybreak; (4) Duhr,
midday; (5)'Aar, afternoon, about 11/; hour before sunset. These
periods of prayer also serve to mark the divisions of the day. The
day is also divided into two periods of 12 hours each, beginning
from sunset, so that where clocks and watches are used they require
to be set daily. Most people however content themselves with the
sonorous call of the mueddin: Alldhu akbar (three times); ashhadu
an M Mha ili' AUG; ashhadu anna Muhammeda rrasttlu'lMh
(twice); heyya'ulu-sgnlfih (twice); lteyya'ata't-futttlv (twice),
Alldhu akbur (twice), IO ildlla itt'ullth; i. e.'Allah is great; I
testify that there is no God but Allah, and Mohammed is the prophet of Allah; come to prayer; come to worship; Allah is great;
there is no God but Allah'. This call to prayer sometimes also
reverberates thrillingly through the stillness of night, to incite
to devotion the faithful who are still awake. - The duty of
washing before prayer is a sanitary institution, and tanks are provided for the purpose in the court of every mosque. In the desert,
where water is scarce and precious, the faithful are permitted to
use sand for this religious ablution.

The person praying must remove his shoes or sandals and turn
his face towards Mecca as the Jews and some of the Christian sects
turn towards Jerusalem ortowards the East 11173 worshipper begins
by putting his hands to the lobes of his ears, and then holds them
a little below his girdle; and he intersperses his recitations from
the fiorin with certain prostrations performed in a given order. On
Fridays the midday recital of prayer takes place three quarters of an
hour earlier than usual. and is followed by a sermon, preached from
the Mamba: (p.184) by a respectable, but unlearned layman,
whose audience sits on the ground in rows before him. Friday is not,

10 *



