DOCTRINES 0F EL-ULN. 149

undertake once in his life, is also deserving of mention. Most of
the pilgrims now perform the greater part of the distance by water.
On approaching Mecca the pilgrims undress, laying aside even
their headgear, and put on aprons and a piece of cloth over the
left shoulder. They then perform the circuit of the Kala, kiss
the black stone, hear the sermon on Mt.'Arafat near Mecca, pelt
Satan with stones in the valley of Mina, and conclude their pilgrimage with a great sacrificial feast. On the day when this takes
place at Mecca, sheep are slaughtered and a festival called the Great
Beiram (cl-'2d el-kebir) observed throughout the whole of the Mohammedan countries. (The'Lesser Beiram', Arab. el-nd er-.stWtappir,
follows Ramadan.) The month of the pilgrimage is called DhulbiggehCthat'of the pilgrimage'). and forms the close of the Muslim
year. For an account of the feast in connection with the pilgrimage see p. 236. In order approximately to convert a year of our
era into one of the Muslim era, subtract 622, divide the remainder
by 33, and add the quotient to the dividend. Conversely, a year
of the Mohammedan era is converted into one of the Christian era
by dividing it by 33, subtracting the quotient from it, and adding
622 to the remainder. On let October, 1884, began the Muslim
year 1302. The Gregorian calendar has recently been introduced
into Egypt, but is used by government in the finance department
only.

Most of the Arabic LITERATURE is connected with the Koran.
Commentaries were written at an early period to explain the obscure passages in it, and there gradually sprang up a series of exegetical writings dwelling with elaborate minuteuess upon every
possible shade of interpretation. Grammar, too, was at first studied
solely in connection with the 1501511, and a prodigious mass of
legal literature was founded exclusively upon the sacred volume.
Of late years, however, some attempts have been made to supersede the ancient law, and to introduce a modern European system.
The Beduins still have their peculiar customary law.

With regard to theological, legal, and still more to ritualistic
questions, El-Islam has not always been free from dissension. There
are in the first place four Orthodox sects, the Hanefites, the Shafe'ites, the Matching, and the Hambalites, who are named after their
respective founders. In addition to these must be mentioned the
schools of Free Thinkers, who sprang up at an early period, partly
owing to the influence of Greek philosophy. The orthodox party,
however, triumphed, not only over these heretics, but also in its
struggle against the voluptuousness and luxury of the most glorious
period of the khalifs.

Ascetism and fanaticism were also largely developed among
professors of El-Mia, and another phase of religious thought was
pure MYSTICISM, which arose chieflyin Persia. The mystics (till?) interpret many texts of the Koran allegorically, and their system there





