150 DOCTRINES or Eli-ISLAM.

fore frequently degenerated into Pantheism. It was by mrslf? s who
still remained within the pale of Fil-tslim (such as the famous Ibn
cl-'Arabi, born in 11134) that the Orders of Dervishes were founded.

DERVISHES (durwish, plur. dard-wish). The love of mysticism
whi h cha (crises Mohammedans is due partly to the nature of
iii--Islam itself, and partly to external circumstances. That earthly
life is worthless, that it is a delusion, and at best a period of probation, are sentiments of frequent recurrence in the Koran. This
pessimist view of life has been confirmed by Mohammed's conception of the Supreme Being, on whose awe-inspiring attributes he
has chielly dwelt. thus filling his adherents with a profound dread
of their Creator. The result of this doctrine was to induce devout
persons to retire altogether from the wicked world, the scene of
vanity and disappointment. and to devote themselves to the practice ot' ascetic exercises, with a view to ensure their happiness in a
future state. The fundamental aim of this ascetioism was to strive
after a knowledge of God by cultivating a kind of half--conscious and
ecstatic exaltation of mind. A mystic love of God was deemed the
great passport which enabled the worshipper to fall into this ecstatic
trance. and to lose himself so completely in contemplation as to
destroy his own individuality (fund) and blend it with that of the
Deity (illilidd). As in Europe the monastic system and the mendicant orders sprang from the example of penitents and hermits who
had renounced the world, so in the Mohammedan world asceticism
was rapidly developed into an organised system of mendicancy,
although in the Koran Mohammed had expressed his strong disapproval of the Christian monastic system. At an early period many
noble thinkers (such as the Persians Sa'di and Hafiz) and talented
poets enrolled themselves in the ranks of the av, tics, but the dervishes who represent the sect at the present day have entirely lost
the spirit of their prototypes, and have retained nothing but the
mere physical capacity for throwing themselves into a mechanical
state of ecstasy and rendering themselves proof against external

sensations.

The following are the principal orders of: iervishes fl.aritat ed-durriwish)
in Egypt:
(l) The f u'iyul (sing. rifti'il, an order founded by s "ul Ahmed
uim'u cumin, possess a monastery near the mosque of Sultan llasnn
lsec p. 360i, and are recognisable by their black flags and black or dark
blue turbans. The best-known sects of this order are the Auldd Ultrdn,
ur'llwriniyrh flervishes, and the 1lu'dr" yek Dervish". The former are
noted for their extraordinary performances at festivals, such as thrusting
iron nails into their eyes and arms, breaking large stones against their
trin # 13, as they lie on their backs on the ground, and swallowing burning
. mm ] and fragments of glass. The Sn'diyeh, who usually carry
green tings. are snake-charmers fp. 2t), and on the Friday on which the
birthday of the prophet is celebrated used to allow their sht: -r than on horseback tthe ddseh; p. 937).

t?! The, Mst "O, an order founded by the celebrated
"1'5"!'Atul sl-t Ilir v. hm'c while Imnners And white banners and white turbans.
Most of them fipellll their time in fishing, and in their processions Hwy






