DOCTRINES OF EL--lsLAM. 151

carry nets of different colours, fishing-rods, and other insignia of their
chief pursuit.

(3) The Ahmedz'yeh (sing. alynedi), the order of Seyyid Ahmed e ] Bedawi, are recognised by their red banners and red turbans. This order
is very numerous and is much respected. It is divided into many sects,
but of these the two most important only need be mentioned. One of these
is the Shimzdwiyeh, who play an important part in the ceremonies at the
tomb of Seyyid Ahmed at Tenth (p. 225 ]. The other seat is that of the
Azcldd N011, who are generally young men, wearing high pointed caps with
a plume of strips of coloured cloth, and a number of small halls strung
across their breasts, and carrying wooden swords and a kind of whip
made of a thick plait of rope.

There are also many other orders which it is unnecessary to enumerate.
The ceremony of the admission of members to all these orders is a very
simple matter. The candidate (et-muNd) performs the customary ablutionl
sits down on the ground beside the superior (cl-mzn'shid, or spiritua,
leader), gives him his hand, and repeats after him a set form of words,
in which he expresses penitence for his sins and his determination to
reform, and calls Allah to witness that he will never quit the order. The
ceremony terminates with three recitals of the confession of faith by the
murid, the joint repetition of the fawn (p. 148). and a kissing of hands.

The religious exercises of all the dervishes consist chiefly in the
performance of Zi'krs (Le. pious devotions, or invocations of Allah; see
below, and p. 239). Almost all the dervishes in Egypt are small tradesmen, artisans, or peasants. Most of them are married men, and they take
part in the ceremonies peculiar to their order at stated seasons only.



lDancing Dervishes.

Some of them, however, make it their business to attend festivals and
funerals for the purpose of exhibiting Iheil zikr These last are called
full-am (sing. mm, i. 13.'poor men". Others again support themselves by
drawing water (hemali: see p. 248). Those who lead a vagrant life and
subsist on alms are comparatively few in number. The dervishes of this
class usually wear a kind of gown (d .t) composed of shreds of rags of
various colours sewn together, or a shaggy coat of skins, and carry a
stick with strips of cloth of various colon s attached to the upper end.
A considerable number of them are insane, in which case they are highly
revered by the people, and are regarded as specially favoured by God,



