152 1) 0 (",



m2 "OC" l'ltl

who has taken their spirits to heaven, while he has left their earthly
tabernacle behind.

The zim lsee p. 2391 to which the traveller will most conveniently
obtain access are those of the Dancing and the Howling pervishes. The
dancing dervishes are called .llevlezris after the founder of their order, the
Mole Jeliil ail-din er-Ihimi of Balkh in Persia (who flourished about AJL
12% |. mcvlewi being the Turkish form for molawi, or adherent of the non
or learned master. They perform their zikr within a circular space about
2'.) ft. in diameter and enclosed by a railing. With slow, measured tread the
shekh comes forward, followed by a dervish, and takes his seat on a carpet
opposite the entrance. The other dervishes next enter the circle one after
another, in the order of their ages, wearing long gowns and conical huts,
They walk solemnly up to their superior, make him a profound obeisanec,
kiss the hem of his robe, and take up their position to his left. From
the galleries is presently heard a rude and weird kind of music, consisting of a single prolonged tone of a stringed instrument accompanied by
a flute and a human voice rising and falling in cadences. Time is beaten
by a tambourine. with varying rapidity and vigour. The singer recites
a hymn expressing the most ardent love of Goat As soon as the singing
ceases. the dervishes rise, and walk in procession three times round the
circle, headed by the shckh. Each of them, including the shékh himself,
makes a low how in passing the spot from which the shékh has just risen.
They then resume their seats, and the sbékb. with closed eyes, and in a
deep, scpulchral voice, begins to murmur a prayer, in which the word
Allfth alone is audible. When the prayer is over the dervishes divest
themselves of their gowns, under which they wear a long, loose, lightcoloured skirt or kill, reaching down to their ankles, and a more closely
fitting vest. They then present themselves before the shC-kh. each in his
turn, make him a profound ohcisauce, and begin to move slowly round
in a circle. They turn on the left foot, propelling themselves by touching
the waxed floor from time to time with the right. Most of them make about
forty gyrations per minute, but some of them accomplish sixty and even
more. The whole of the zikr is performed by the dervishes noiselessly,
with closed eyes, and outstretched arms, the palm of one hand being
turned upwards and the other downwards, and their heath either thrown
back or leaning on one side. During the dance soft strains of music are
heard, while the beat of the tambourine gradually accelerates, and the
skirts of the performers fly out in a wide circle. The tones of the [ lute
become shriller and shriller, until on a signal given by the shékh the
music ceases, the dancers stop, cross their arms over their chests. and
resume their seats. The dance is performed three times by all except
the superior. The latter, however, Walk! several times noiselessly through
the midst of the dancers, who, although their eyes are closed, touch neither
him nor one another. The whole zikr occupies about an hour.

The howling or shunting dervishes perform their zikr in a kneeling
or crouching posture, with their heads and chests bent downwards. In
this attitude they sometimes remain for hours, incessantly shouting the
Muslim confession of faith--'lzi ilzihn', etc., until they at length attain
the ecstatic condition, and finish by repeating the word Int. i. e.'he'
Hind) alone. On the occasion of great festivals some of them fall into
a kind of epileptic convulsion, and foam at the mouth; but no notice is
taken of them, and they are left to recover without assistance. It need
hardly be added that the European traveller will find these performances
unpleasing and painful.

The Wonsmr or SAINTS AND MARTYRS was inculcated in connection with El-Islam at an early period. The faithful undertook
pilgrimages to the graves of the departed in the belief that death
did not interrupt the possibility of communication with them.
'I Inns the tomb of Mohammed at Medina, and that of his grandson
l'lus n at kisrbvla, became particularly famous, and every little

town soon boasted of the tomb of its particular saint. In many






















