F DOCTRINES OF EL-ISLKM. 153

of the villages of Syria the traveller will observe small deme00vered buildings, with grated Windows, and surmounted by the
crescent. These are the so--called ll'clt's, mausoloa of saints, or
tombs of shékhs. In the interior there is usually a block of stone,
hewn in the shape of a sarcophagus and covered with a green or
red cloth, on which texts from the Koran are embroidered in gold
or silver. The walls are generally embellished with paintings
representing the sacred cities of El-lslam, and executed in an
amusingly primitive style. Suspended from the ceiling by cords
and threads are little boats, ostrich eggs, and numerous paper
bags filled with sacred earth from Mecca. In one corner are
a thick was candle and a heap of bones of all kinds. The tomb is
usually surrounded by a burial-ground, where certain persons have
the privilege of being interred. Schools are also frequently connected with these weli's. Shreds of cloth are often seen suspended from
the railings of these tombs, or on certain trees which are considered sacred, having been placed there by devout persons. This
curious custom is of ancient origin.

About the end of the 18th century a reaction against the abuses
of El-Islim sprang up in Central Arabia. The WAHHABITES, or
Wahhabees, named after their founder'Abd el-Wahhab, endeavoured to restore the religion to its original purity; they destroyed
all tombs of saints, including even those of Mohammed and Hfisén,
as objects of superstitious reverence, and sought to restore the
primitive simplicity of the prophet's code of morals; and they even
forbade the smoking of tobacco as being intoxicating They soon
became a great political power, and had not Mohammad Ali deemed
it his interest to suppress them, their influence would have been
far more widely extended than it now is. - As to the Senusi
order, see p. 67.

We have hitherto spoken of the doctrines of the Sunnites (from
summ,'tradition'), who form one great sect of El-Islim. At an early
period the SHi'ITES (from sWa,'sect'j seceded from the Sunnites.
They assigned to'Ali, the son-in-law of Mohammed, a rank equal
or even superior to that of the prophet himself; they regarded him
as an incarnation of the Deity, and believed in the divine mission
of the imams descended from him. El-Mahdi, the last of these,
is believed by them not to have died, but to be awaiting in
concealment the coming of the last day. The Persians are all
'Sht'ites. Towards the West also Shi'itism was widely disseminated
at an early period, particularly in Egypt under the regime of the
Fatimite sovereigns. The Shi'ites are extremely fanatical, refusing even to eat in the society of persons of a different creed.
The other sects, which are chiefly confined to Syria (the Mctdwiteh,
the Ismdtttyels, the Nosairiyeh, the Druses, etc), are noticed in
Baedeker's Syria and Palestine.



