1M o1lOlIAtnTEDAtt" GI'HTOMS.

Remarks on Mohammedan Customs.

The birth of a child is celebrated on the seventh day of its life
by a domestic festival, attended by the lir.li or some learned theologian. who dissolves in his mouth a piece ofsngar-eandy presented
to him by the host and drops a little of his sweetened saliva into
the infant's mouth, as if to give it a sweet foretaste of the World's
gifts. and also for the purpose of'giving it a name out of his mouth'.

inn, it is well known, are usually named by their prouomens
only. If a more precise designation is desired, the name of the
father is placed after the pronomen, with or without the word ibn
('son of) placed between the names. Nicknames, such as'the oneeyed'. 0th, are also not uncommon.

When the. child is forty days old the mother takes it to the bath,
and causes forty bowls of water [ thirty--nine in the ease of a girl ]
to be poured over its head. This hath forms the purification of both
mother and child.

The rite of circumcision is performed on boys up to the age of
six or seven, or even later, the ceremony being attended with great
pomp. The child is previously couductedthrough the streets in holiday
attire, the procession being frequently united with somebridal party,
in order to diminish the expense of the proceedings The boy generally wears a turban of red cashmere, girls" clothes of the richest
possible description, and conspicuous female ornaments, which are
designed to attract attention, and thus avert the evil eye from his
person. A handsomely oaparisoued horse is borrowed to carry him;
he half covers his face with an embroidered handkerchief; and the
harbor who performs the operation and a noisy troop of musicians
head the procession. The first personage in the procession is usually
the barber's boy, carrying the'heml', or barber's sign, a kind at
cupboard made of wood, in the form of a half- cylinder, with four
whort lo The flat front of the hem ] is adorned with pieces of
looking-glass and embossed brass, while the back is covered with
a curtain. Two or more boys are often thus paraded together, being
usually driven in a carriage and attended by music.

Girls are generally married in their I'Zth or 13th, and sometimes as early as their 10th year. A man in search of a bride
emp'nys the services of a relative, or of a professional female
match-maker, and he never has an opportunity of seeing his bride
until the. except when the parties belong to the
low, st classes. When everything is arranged, the affianced bridevronli l 33 to pay a bridal-portion (mam) amounting to about 2:3 L,
mare la ill }: paid when the bride is a Spinster than if she is a widow.
Hem-rally speaking, about two-thirds of the sum, the amount
If which always forms a subject of lively discussion, is paid
d M", while one--third is settled upon the wife, being payable on
the death of the husband, or on his divorcing her against her will.





