MOHAMMEDAN CUSTOMS. 155

he marriage-contract is now complete. Before the wedding the
bride is conducted in gala attire and with great ceremony to the
bath. This procession is called We/ret cl ytrrnvrrfrrt'. It is headed
by several musicians with hautbois and drums; these are followed
by several married friends and relations of the bride in pairs, and
after these come a number of young girls. The bride is entirely concealed by the clothing she wears, being usually enveloped from head
to foot in a cashmere shawl, and wearing on her head a small cap, or
crown, of pasteboard. The procession moves very slowly, and another
body of musicians brings up the rear. The hideous shrieks of joy
which women of the lower classes utter on the occurrence of any sensational event are called sagltfrft. The bride is afterwards conducted
with the same formalities to the house of her husband.

The ceremonies observed at funerals are not less remarkable
than those which attend weddings. If the death occurs in the morning, the funeral takes place the same day; but if in the evening,
it is postponed till next day. The body is washed and mourned
over by the family and the professional mourning women (neddfihalls; a custom prohibited by Mohammed, but one dating from the
r &'motest antiquity ]: the fit-Ni, or schoolmaster, reads several Strees
of the Koran by its side; after this, it is wrapped in its winding
sheet, plated on the bier, covered with a red or green cloth, and
then carried forth in solemn procession. The foremost persons in
the cortége are usually six or more poor, and generally blind, men,
who walk in two: or threes at a slow pace, chanting the creed'There is no God but God; Mohammed is the ambassador of God;
God be gracious to him and preserve him y These are followed by
several male relatives of the deceased, and sometimes by a number
of dervishes with the flags of their order, and then by three or more
schoolboys, one of whom carries a copy of the Koran, or of parts of
it, on a stand made of palm-branches, covered with a cloth. The
boys usually chant in a loud and shrill voice several passages from
the'Hashriych', a poem describing the last judgment. The bier,
with the head of the deceased foremost, comes next, being borne
by three or four of his friends, who are relieved from time to time
by others. After the bier come the relations and friends in their
everyday attire, and the female relatives, with dishevelled hair,
sobbing aloud, and frequently accompanied by professional mourning women, whose business it is to extol the merits of the deceased.
If the deceased was the husband or father of the family. one of the
cries is -'O thou camel of my house', the camel being the emblem
of the bread-winner of the household.

The body is first carried into that mosque for whose patron
saints the relatives entertain the greatest veneration, and prayers
are there offered on its behalf. After the bier has been placed in
front of the tomb of the saint, and prayers and chants have again
been recited, the procession is formed anew and moves towards the






