. 157

VIII. Historical Notice of Egyptian Art.

In the ancient Egyptian poem which extols the achievements of
Ramses the temples in the valley ofthe Nile are called'everlasting
stones"; and the works of Egyptian art do indeed seem to lay claim
to perpetuity. Some of the monuments have existed for forty or
even fifty centuries, so that, compared with them, the works of all
other nations appear recent and modern; and a still greater marvel
is that the skill displayed in the execution of these monuments
must have been the growth of many antecedent ages, all memorials
of which are now buried in the obscurity of the remotest antiquity.

The Egyptian people belonged to the so-callcd Chamite race,
and, like the Semites and, the Indo-Germanians, had their original
home in Asia (comp. pp. 37, 38). Whether they brought any
of their arts to the Valley of the Nile, or whether their taste for
art and their imagination were awakened for the first time by the
Father of Rivers, must of course remain for ever unknown. Some
of the very earliest of the products of Egyptian art are indeed
more akin to those of Asia than the later, but Egyptian art as a
whole presents so peculiar and unique a character that its origin was
most probably local. The question might indeed be settled if we
were in a position to compare early Egyptian art with that of the
Oriental nations of the same period; but of the latter we can now
find no trace. The only sources from which we can form any
opinion regarding the original condition and the earliest development of Egyptian art are the technical execution of the oldest
known monuments and the forms and style of decoration employed
in them. Thus the ceiling-painting in the pyramidal tombs reveals
its indebtedness to the textile handicraft; for it is in the art of
weaving alone that the margins and seams there represented have
any use or significance. Again, the walls ofthe most ancient tombchambers contain horizontal and vertical bands and convex mouldings, the design of which has obviously been borrowed from a system
ofbuilding in wood. The sloping ridges ofthe pyramids point to an
original style of building with crude brick, as walls of that material
required to be tapering in form to ensure their durability. We
thus gather that the Egyptians of a very remote period were weavers
and potters, familiar with the arts of building in wood and in brick.
If we go a little farther, and venture to draw inferences from the
subjects and forms of their earliest works of art, we find that the
Egyptians of the remotest traceable period must have been a cheerful
and contented people, free from that taste for the mystic and the
symbolical which afterwards characterised all their exertions in
the sphere of art, and endowed with a love of life and nature
which they zealously manifested in the earliest products of their
imagination.

An attempt to gather a history of Egyptian art from the in





