HISTORY OF ART. 159

c apels for themselves (Mastaba) in the form of blunted pyramids,
in order, as it were, to pay homage to the memory of their illustrious
masters. The pictorial decorations of these temples, as well as the
plastic works of the same period, serve most impressively to complete the artistic effect of the pyramids. While their marvellously
perfect execution alone indicates a high state of artistic development,
our admiration is specially aroused by the striking fidelity to nature
and expressiveness of the sculptures. The unfavourable criticisms
on Egyptian sculpture formerly current may indeed now be regarded
as entirely refuted. Even in European museums an opportunity is
afforded to the traveller of becoming acquainted with the noble style
by which the early Egyptian art alone is characterised. What visitor
to the Louvre, for example, can fail to remember the striking
impression produced by the statue of the'Writer?' The expressive
eyes are formed of dark quartz containing a transparent pupil of
rock crystal fixed with a small knob of metal, while the attitude is remarkable for its lifelike fidelity and strong individuality. This statue
dates from the fifth or sixth dynasty, and the museum at Dana contains other plastic works of the same period in which an almost overdrawn realism is still more apparent. The limestone statue of RaNefer, a priest of Ptah-Sokar at Memphis, and the wooden figure of
the'village shr'yrch' (p. 305 ], which the Paris Exhibition of 1867 has
brought into so favourable notice, are the best-known specimens of
a style of art of which the very existence was unsuspected a few decades ago, and the discovery of which has tended greatly to modify
the old supposition that the Egyptian sculptors executed their works
in mere mechanical accordance with a prescribed canon. The chief
merit of the earliest Egyptian sculpture is the faithfulness of the
portraiture, which is such that the identity of the person represented
by two different statues may often be determined by the similarity
of the features, even when executed at different periods of the person's life. In this way have been identified eight statues of Khat'ra,
the third king of the fourth dynasty, although all differing in measurement, material, and the age represented (comp. pp. 305, 3071.
Observation of nature in the case of these earliest works has evidently been carried into the minutest details. The race of men represented is uniformly of the same character, somewhat resembling
that of the modern fellahin; the figures are of a powerful. thickset
type, and their muscles are faithfully represented, occasionally to
exaggeration. These early sculptors, however, were incapable of
producing works of a more complex character, where excellence
of general effect required to be superadded to accuracy of detail, and
in this respect they were far surpassed by their successors. Even
the reliefs in the tomb--chambers of Memphis are executed in a
singularly fresh and unsophisticated style, and the spectator will
hardly regret the absence of the mystic symbolism ofthe later period.

After the sixth dynasty there occurs asudden falling away from

I



