160 HISTORY OF ART.

this vigorous style ot'art, occasioned perhaps by political dissensions,
by internal wars. and possibly by a change of religious convictions.
It was not until the rise of the Eleventh Dynasty that the state of
the country became more settled, and that art beganto revive. The
new style, however, differed materially from the old. As the ancient
capitals of Memphis and This now began to yield precedence to
Thebes, the new centre ofthe kingdom, and as the system ofwriting,
thelaws, andthe constitution. had all undergone material alteration,
so. too, it may rather be said that the cultivation ofart began anew
than that the style then practised was a development of that of the
fourth and sixth dynasties. Of this second eftloreseence of art no
great monuments have been handed down to us, the most important
works being the obelisks of Heliopolis and the Fayfim and several
colossi dug up at Tanis and Abydus. The rock tombs of lteni Uasan
are also interesting relics of the period of the Twelfth Dynasty.
In these we find a reversion to the rock-building style, which, according to Lepsius, is nearly identical with that of the grotto
architecture, and owed its origin to the prevalence of ancestorworship, and to the. popular desire, arising from the Egyptian doctrine
of immortality, for the preservation of the bodies of the dead. The
rock-tomb was safe from theoverflow of the Nile, while its equable
temperature arrested the decay of the corpse, and a chapel connected with it afforded the relations an opportunity of paying
homage and presenting offerings to the deceased. The division
of the tomb into a series of chambers, leading at length to the
actual sepulchre, soon led to their being architecturally decorated. Where there were several chambers, one behind the other, it
was natural that openings should be made in the walls for the sake
of admitting light. The next step was to convert the remaining
portions of wall into pillars for the support of the roof, and to plane
oil their corners, partofthe pillar being, however, leftsquare at the
top so as to blend the octagonal column with the roof. In the
next place the octagonal pillar was sometimes converted into one
of sixteen sides, so as to resemble a column, and in some cases
the flat surfaces were grooved or fluted, a sharp angle being thus
formed between each of them. Polygonal columns ofthis character,
which occur in the first tomb of Belli lJasart, have been called
Proto-ltorie or l-lgypto-lloric by Champollion and Falkener, from
th; ir resemblance to the limit: columns of the GreeksCFig. ll ]. The
points of resemblance are the marked fluting, the tapering, and the.
absence of bases; but the Proto-Dorie differs from the Greek Dorie
in being destitute or the'twhinn a member resembling an overlmnvine wreath oflcavcs, and forming the capital ofthe Dorie column.
In some cast-s there is the still greater diiTerenee that the Protolmrie mlnnms are uniluted, the surfaces being left smooth for the
reception 01' coloured inscriptions. In such cases the column loses
Its structural significance. being degraded to a mere surface for





