152 n xsu'on y or ART.

are necessarily stereotyped. There seems, however, tohave been 11
retrogression in point of technical skill; for, as in the time of
Khafra, the hardest materials still became compliant, and the diftleulties of tho minutest detail were still successfully overcome by
the sculptors of the Pharaohs.

Another considerable break new took place in the progress of
Egyptian art. This dreary interval began with the invasion of
the llyksos or Shepherds, and lasted throughout
the whole of their domination. To them is attributed the destruction of the older monuments,

and they themselves have left no architectural re
it mains behind them. They were not, -however,

' entirely insensible to the charms of art, and after
the first terrors of the invasion were over, they
did not prevent the Egyptian artists from prose
], T outing their calling. As the Normans in Sicily

adopted the culture of the conquered Arabs, so

i i the llyksos turned to account the knowledge of

, art and the technical skill possessed by the Egyptians. The sculptures excavated at Tania, the capital of the Hyksos (four sphinxes and particularly a group of river-gods in granite), are of
Egyptian workmanship, and there is nothing to
betray their origin in the llyksos period except
the type of the features, the bushy boards, and
the thick tufts of hair.

With the expulsion of the llyksos begins a
newperiod, in the history of art as well as in that
; s of politics. The warlike and victorious monarchs
of the Eighteenth and Nineteenth Dynasties, in
particular, have perpetuated their memory by
astonishingly numerous monuments. The compulsory labour of
captive enemies afforded the architects an opportunity of carrying
out their most gigantic designs, while the achievements of their
sovereigns, such as the campaigns of Thethmes, Amenophis, and
ltalnses, supplied the sculptors with an inexhaustible theme for
the decoration of the facades of their temples. To this period of
the new empire belong most of the Theban monuments. The taste
for the great and the colossal, and for symmetry of proportion had
attained its culminating point, but the stagnation of the lifesprings
ul art, the (s tell as the llr: uus and the llathor masks ] become unpleasj'y wpurvnt It can hardly, however, he said that the decline
et Ingltptiull art had yet begun; for this period lasted so long as to
21w rw- to a general beliet' that the Egyptians had never yo ssed
"Hy "lln'r style, and entirely to obliterate the recollection of the



III. Lntus Uulumn.








