HISTORY OF ART. 163



more ancient and materially different period of development. At
the same time a careful inspection of the monuments of this period
will convince the observer that no farther development could be expected afterwards to take place on the basis of a system so lifeless
and entirely mechanical. Shortly before the conquest of the country
by the Persians, however, a slight improvement in artistic taste
appears to have taken place. While the monuments of the Twentysecond and following Dynasties are unattractive, being mere
reproductions of earlier works, the sculptures of the Twenty-sixth
Dynasty (such as the alabaster statue of Queen Ameniritis of the
XXV. Dynasty) exhibit a considerable degree of elegance and
refinement. But this revival was of brief duration. After the
establishment of the Ptolemaaan dynasty the native art became
entirely extinct, though for a time a semblance of life was artificially maintained. Political interests required the restoration of the
temples, and numerous artists were employed for the purpose; the
traditional style continued to be practised, and every branch of art
was liberally patronised. The style of this period, however, had
well-nigh degenerated into more mannerism, and therefore does
not possess the historical interest attaching to the earlier stages of
Egyptian art.

The art of the Ptolemzean era, moreover, in spite of all its
richness and apparent vigour, not only shows manifest symptomsof decline, but was threatened with the loss of its originality
and independence owing to foreign influences. As soon as Hellas
came into contact with Egypt, the innate charms of Hellenic art,
which even remote India was unable to resist, began to affect the
hitherto strongly conservative and self-satisfied Egyptians.

Having thus given a slight chronological outline of the progress of Egyptian art, we must now endeavour to supplement it by
a description of the chief characteristics of each period. Our
attention will be chiefly directed to the monuments of the new
empire, owing to their great number and extent.

The Column in Egypt, as elsewhere, constitutes the most important of all architectural members. Its absence indicates a very
elementary stage of the art of building, when artistic development
has yet to begin. The column imparts to the edifice an appearance
of organic life, it lightens and breaks the outline of its different
masses, and affords strength and apportr When compared with
the Greek columnar orders, the Egyptian column is of a very
imperfect character. Its decoration and its form do not immediately and exclusively express its proper office, as is the case with
the Greek column, and the Doric in particular. Its dependence on
its natural prototype, the wreath-crowned canopy--support, still
continues apparent, and its proportions, though not altogether
independent of rule, still appear too arbitrary. Lastly, the height
and thickness of the columns do not stand in an appropriate

11 "



