l (36 HISTORY OF ART.

with the crook in his left hand and the scourge in his right, stain s
quite detached from the pillar, and bears no part of the weight. tb
structural function has been treated as a matter of very subordinate
importance.

Immediately connected with the columns are the beams above
them. The inner apartments of the temples were coiled with stone
beams exclusively, extending from the abacus (or crowning slab)
of one column to that of another; and the rectangular spaces th us
formed were filled with slabs of stone, adorned sometimes with
astronomical designs The chief characteristics of the outer p arts
of the beams are, that the architrave rests immediately on the abacus, and that there is a furrow hollowed out above it, forming
a deep shadow. The architrave is generally inscribed with hieroglyphics, so that its structural office is rendered less apparent; but
the concave moulding above it presents the appearance of a proper
crowning cornice (Fig. VIII, b), thus serving to counterbalance the





VHla, l-Inlalvlalm'e irum ihe Tmuhs of lieni l_Insan. Vlllb. Fhttaldature
with hollowed eurnice.

meat of the inwardly sloping walls, and giving the building an
appropriate finish. The hollowed cornice is usually embellished
with upright leaves or staves; and, when it crowns a portal, a winged
sun-disc generally hovers over the centre. The architectural idea
embodied in the entahlature of the tombs of Berri llasan is materially different. Above the architrave lies a straight projecting slab.
which presents the appearance of being borne by a series of beams
(Fig. The resemblance here to cognate Oriental modes
"ith the
concave cornice, and its frame-like embellishment of roll-moulding,
constitute the chief articulation of the edifice; but this would have
afl'urdu-d insufficient relief had it not been supplemented with
colouringv wlureby the cold surface of the walls was covered with
a pattern resembling that of a gorgeous carpet.

In order that the traveller may thoroughly understand and appreciate l-leyptiau architecture, he should make himself acquainted








