HISTORY OF ART. 167



not merely with the different modes of building and their details,
but with the peculiarities of the national religious rites. The costly
stone edifices of the ancient Egyptians were used exclusively for
religious purposes. It is an error to suppose that the temples contained the royal residences within their precincts; the nature of the
climate alone would have rendered them uninhabitable. The kings'
palaces, as we learn from the representations ofthem in tombs, were
edifices of a very light and airy description, adorned with balconies,
colonnades, and bowers, and surrounded by gardens and ponds.
They were built of brick and wood, and, as the sole object of the
architects was to provide a convenient and pleasant dwelling, they
were richly decorated with colouring.

With regard to the architecture of the temples, it is important
to keep in view the factY that they were neither destined for the
reception of a congregation like Christian churches, nor, like the
Greek temples, erected as mere receptacles for the image of the god.
The Egyptian worshippers approached the temple precincts in
solemn procession, and the profane remained outside, while the initiated and the ordained penetrated to different parts of the interior
in accordance with the degree of their knowledge of the divine
mysteries, the high priest alone being privileged to enter the
innermost sanctuary.

The multitude would first arrive in their festively decorated
boats by the great highway of the Nile, and they would then traverse
the avenue leading to the temple, which was flanked by sphinxes
on each side, The sphinxes consist of a lion's body with the
head of a man (Androsphinxj, or that of a ram (kriosphinsj, and
according to an inscription at Edfu they were intended to symbolise the conflict of Horus with Typhon-Seth. The sphinx avenue
led to the precincts of the temple proper, the Temenos of the
Greeks, which were completely enclosed by a wall, built of bricks
of the Nile clay, or, as at Edfu, of solid stone. The sacred lakes,
generally two in number, and the sacred grove were usually the only
accessories of the temple which lay without the precincts. At the
end of the avenue the eye is confronted by two huge towers with the
entrance between them, called the Pylons, which are in the form of
truncated pyramids, with walls divided into sections by round
staves, and Ml'ording admirable surfaces for plastic or pictorial decoration. The pylons and the portal between them are both crowned
with the usual hollowed cornice. Under ordinary circumstances
these pylons present a very imposing appearance, but their
grandeur must have been much enhanced when they were festively
decorated Las in Fig. IN ] on solemn occasions, and when gaily hung
with flags to welcome the arrival of the worshippers. Within the
pylons, in the larger temples, lay a large open court (Peristyle),
flanked on two or three sides with colonnades, and beyond it a
large ball borne by columns (Hypostyle), of which those in the






