HISTORY OF ART. 169

the portal of the Prosekos, or hall'of the manifestation of majesty',
they were permitted to behold from afar the sacred emblem of
divinity. These worshippers were now passed by the king and the
officiating priests, who ascended in solemn procession to the roof,
while the high priest entered the small and sombre chamber of the
god. The annexed ground-plan of the S. temple at Karnak will
render the foregoing description more intelligible Jig. X), and
analogous arrangements might easily be pointed out in the temples.
of other nations, such as those of Semitic race. The erection of
obelisks or colossi (or both) in front of the pylons is also susceptible of easy explanation. The obelisks, the form of which was well
adapted to break the monotonous outline of the walls, record in

,























N. Ground Plan of the S. Temple at Karnak.

hieroglyphic inscriptions the victorious power bestowed on the
Pharaohs by the god, while the royal statues remind beholders of
the duty of monarchs to show their gratitude by erecting temples to
the gods. The winged disk of the sun with the heads of the Umus
serpent over every entrance has also a noteworthy signification. 1t
symbolises the victory of Horus over Typhon', and the triumph of
good over evil; and an inscription at Edfu informs us that, after
the victory of Horus, Thoth (reason) commanded this symbol to be
placed over all entrances. On the other hand the way in which
architecture is constantly made subservient to painting, for the
purpose of obtaining surfaces for symbols and inscriptions, is
unpleasing. Every column. every pillar, every roof-beam, and every
wall is embellished with raised or engraved figures and characters.
all of which are painted. The scenes which portray the victories of
the Pharaohs, and their intercourse with the gods, are always accompanied by explanatory inscriptions, and even the simplest ornaments used under the new empire have some symbolical signification.

The form of temple above described sometimes required to be
varied in consequence of the nature of the site. In Lower Nubia
the sandstone rocks approach so near the Nile that the temples had
to be partially or wholly excavated in their sides. At Girgeh, for
example (Fig. NO, the pylons and the colonnaded courtyard were
built in the open air in front ofthe temple, while the hypostyle and






