170 HISTORY 01" ART.




the sanctuary were excavated in the rock. The larger temple ot'Abn
bimbo ], on the other hand, including the pylons and the colossi, is
entirely excavated in the rock. During the Ptolemaran era other deviations from the traditional types came into vogue. Differences in



XI. Ground Plan of the Grotto of Girgeh.

the forms of tho capitals, in the ornamentation, and other details,
as well as a more arbitrary disposition of the temple arrangements
themselves, now clearly betray the invasion of Greek influences.

Several of these late buildings, entirely enclosed by columns,
with intervening walls rising to half the height of the columns,
or even higher, so strongly resemhle the Greek peripteral temples
externally, that some internal similarity is involuntarily expected.
The probable objeet of some of these. edifices, namely to serve as
em-ius nres for sacred animals, proves them to he of purely lirryptian
origin; but, owing to the abnormal disposition of the difTeront
members, it is difficult to conceive them to he products of purely
native an Besides the temples in the island of Phila', the imposing edifices of Erlfu [ Apollinopolis) lagna' 17.di'u [ Apollinopolis Magna'), liem Omhu (Ombos),
lism-h (Hermonthisl,
afford ample opportunities for the study of the Ptolemzean style of
architecture, the impression produced by which is apt to procure
for Egyptian art a less favourable general verdict than it strictly
dnerves.

While the edifices dedicated to the service of the gods belong
(-ly to the period of the new empire, there still exist Morti'ary'l'enples the origin of which may be traced hack to the renioo 4t periods of the ant-ient empire. The oldest of these temples
are I'RHI d "Main/" H tramp. p. 375) ), and contained a chapel for the
m-Ivlymtiou nl' sepulehral rites, as well as a tomb. The kings,
lmm-w-r. m m not satisfied with a monument in which their
tombs am ] mortuary chapels were united, hut adjacent to their
Pyramids treeted temples in whieh sacrifices were to he offered for
tlw wt Ilium of their souls. The handsome pillar-structure of granite








