HISTORY OF ART. 171



af, alabaster near the great Sphinx appears to have been a temple of
this kind in connection with the pyramid of Chefren. Under the
new empire also the kings constructed their actual burial-places at
a distance from the monuments dedicated to their memory. The
deep rock vaults in the ravines of the royal tombs were the restingplaces of their remains, while the great'Memnonia' (which are
plated exclusively on the W. bank of the Nile at Thebes) were the
temples where rites were celebrated in their memory, The mostinteresting feature of the mortuary temples is their pictorial decoration.
The subjects of those in the memnouia are of course the power and
prosperity, the victories and achievements, of the monarchs, while
the private chapels contained scenes from the domestic life of the
deceased. The memnonia sometimes covered a very extensive area,
like that of Ramses ll., which contained a library and a school.
Most of them have pylons and large colonnaded halls, but it cannot
now be ascertained whether they were uniform in their arrangements.

By far the greater number of Egyptian sculptures are in immediate connection with architectural works. Colossal statues
mount guard over pylons and pillars, and every available surface
is adorned with reliefs. If these plastic works are to be fairly
judged, they must be regarded as component parts of the building
they adorned. Speaking of the colossal statues, Dr. Lepsius justly
remarks: -'The features of these statues, which even received
divine honours, and were enthroned in, or in front of, temples in
a commanding position, either as structural supports, or detached
from the pillars behind them, wear the same character of monumental repose as the statues of the gods themselves, and yet
without the possibility of their human individuality being
confounded with the universally typical features of the divine
images' .---- This is chiefly the case with the colossal sitting
statues, whose position (with their legs bent at a right angle,
their arms firmly pressed against their sides, and their heads
looking in a perfectly straight direction) may well be called stiff,
but not properly conventional. Many peculiarities of Egyptian
art, especially during the earlier period, are apt to be attributed to
the imperative requirements of sacerdotal authority, but they
are perhaps rather to be accounted for by the imperfection of
artistic development. The sculptors exhibit great skill in detail,
but they seem incapable of making their skill subserve the general
effect of their works. They have obviously striven to represent each
member of the body with the utmost fidelity, but they were incapable of combining them harmoniously. Thus, we generally
see reliefs with the faces in profile, the chest nearly facing us,
and the legs again in profile, a peculiarity which recurs in the
works of other Oriental nations, and even in these of the Cheeks of
the early period. This defect was at length overcome by the Gree
but of the Egyptian artists it continued permanently characteristic,



