Ming: delineated in much larger proportions than other person
llainpered hr these immutable rules as to proportion Lwhich wer
nwlilled twice only in the course of several thousand years }, Eg

tian art appears to have been seriously checked in its growth, and
to have entered, after a brief period of efflorescence, on a long era
of what may he termed Byzantinism, - and yet in many respects
the Egyptian sculptures merit our highest admiration. The artistic
pffee vapablc of being produced in any given material, such as
granite, were. always calculated with the nicest discrimination;
nothing, capable of achievement is left undone, and beyond this
nothing is attempted. The sculptors are notable for their knowledge
of anatomy, for their accuracy in the delineation of muscle, for
their skill in portraiture, and for their fidelity in representing
animal life. Of all the Egyptian works the figures of the gods are
perhaps the least happy, To us they seem to exhibit a want of taste
an ] intelligence; but this is perhaps to be accounted for by the fact
that they were intended to be worshipped only, and not admired.
That the practice of art was very highly developed in Egypt is proved
n it merely by the great extent to which the division of labour was
carried, but by the fact that the. artists understood the process of
copying figures liy dividing them into squares and calculating their
proportions so as to he able to reduce or enlarge them at pleasure.
Ss all authorities, however, concur in pronouncing the Egyptian
artists perfect in point of technical skill, it would be superfluous
in say more on this branch of the subject.
lit-sides the painting of the Egyptian plastic works, another pcI'llliarily is the incision of the reliefs, which mcdo from the surface
i""" -' { "0" being raised above it. These'cmlauoglyphs', or'reliefs cu
m k, which snmewhat resemble pieces of embroidery, produce
I « fly the same i-iTt-et as paintings. Their object is the same, and
(hi 1le of e mposition, design, and artistic execution are nearly



