HISTORY OF ART. 1 73

identical. No attention whatever was paid to tastefulness in grouping or uniformity of arrangement, the separate scenes being merely
placed beside or over each other; but, individually, these are remarkable for distinctness and excellence of execution, and they
afford us a far more vivid picture of the life of the ancient Egyptians, their customs, their wars, and their religious rites, than
any written chronicle could have afforded. In artistic finish, on the
other hand, these scenes are defective, and the colouring has no independent value, being merely used to make the figures stand
out more distinctly, and imitating nature in the crudest possible
manner.

In the province of artistic conception we find Egyptian imagination fettered by traditional bonds which it made no effort to
break; but in the practice of the handicrafts Egypt was perfect.
The goldsmiths and workers in metal in particular had attained the
most complete mastery of their craft; they thoroughly understood
all its ancillary arts, such as enamelling and Damasceue work, and
they were thus able to produce works of a degree of finish such as
a highly civilised nation alone could execute and appreciate.

The traveller should note the signification of some of the SarrnBOLS and SIGNS most commonly used in the ornamentation of the

columns and other parts of the Egyptian temples. Thus, is the
crook or shepherd's staff, the emblem of the leader or monarch;
a scourge, the symbol of kingly power. When both are in
the hand of the same figure they perhaps import the power of
restraining and of urging onwards. Then a seal, the symbol
of life; Nilometer, the symbol of steadfastness; H the red
crown of Lower Egypt; d the white crown of Upper Egypt;

the united crown of Upper and Lower Egypt; and the ['rzeus

serpent. On diadems and suns was placed the emblem 205. The
Urzeus serpent, possessing the power of life and death, was

the emblem of kingly power. The sceptre, user, denoted authority of various kinds, power, wealth, and victorious strength. The
sceptre, which is read the, t'am, or club, indicates the name of

the Theban nomos; v, a basket, signifies a master; W, a
decorated basket, a festival, or solemn assembly, at which offerings

were made in such receptacles; man, an ostrich--feather, truth

and justice; C), run, the frame surrounding the names of kings,



