I71 BUILDINGS OF TIIE'0 AIL".
























signifies the name;' leper, the scarabaens or beetle, t e

e" plts of genesis and regeneration. The precise meaning of the
symbol is unknown, but it is read sum, and signifies union. It

is frequently observed at the foot of statues, entwined with aquatic
plants. Where it is symbolical 0f the union of Upper and Lower
122 } pt, and perhaps of the union of this world with the next. The

lock 2 on the temple of a figure marks it as a child, generally the
offspring of the gods or of the kings.

IX. Buildings of the Mohammedans.
Mosques. Dwelling Houses.
By Franz-Begr, Architect at (tum).

The Mohammedan style of architecture in the valley of the Nile
was not, as might perhaps be expected, the immediate successor
Ofthe Egyptian, but was separated from it by that of the early
('hristian epoch, a period of six or seven centuries. This new style
was not of native growth, but was imported from abroad, being of
Arabian origin, considerably modified by the forms of art which the
victorious Arabs found in vogue among the liyzantines, and by
those of Persian art of the era of the Sassanides. Different as the
Arabian buildings at Baghdad and Cairo may appear from those at
Tunis and in Spain, they all possess certain features in common.
The fundamental idea of all Mohammedan architecture originated
in the nomadic life of the Arabs. The tent was the prototype,
alike of the house and of the temple. The walls in particular, with
their carpet-like decoration, and their extensive, nnrelieved surfaces, remind one of this origin. This style of architecture is that
of the fickle children of the desert, whose edifices, even after they
had become a settled and stationary nation, continue to convey an
idea of unsubstantiality, and who never attained to a clear perm ption of the proportion to be observed between the support and
the burden to be borne. This defect is less apparent in cases where
the Arabian builders were brought under the influence of more
riiilised nations, where they employed columns, Entablatnres, and
uthtr fragments of ruined edifices which they found available, or
"hue, as somttimes happened, they were aided by Byzantine or
other foreign architects, than in purely Arabian edifices like the
.Allsat ihra in > pain; but in every case the national characteristic
1-; In -n- or less distinctly traceable.

'l he huihlii gs most immediately connected with the national
traditions are the Hummus I'lnurrtzns, the leading feature of which
""1331" of th: f url. such as that seen at Moron, which dates from
a period I'1t In earlier than that of Alohamtnctl himself. The walls



