UlLDlNGS OF THE MOHAMMEDANS. 175

o the court, indeed, lost their primitive simplicity after their

esigners had been brought into contact with the colonnaded courts
of Egypt and the Syrian regions, and the Columnar Court was thus
developed; but the Arabian builders avoided using or imitating
Egyptian columns. They preferred the columns or remains of columns of the Alexandrian and Roman period, as the massive proportions of those of the Egyptian style were less appropriate to a
light and open structure than the columns of the richly decorated
Corinthian order.

They borrowed their cornicings, which they employed but sparingly, and their mosaic ornamentation, such as arabesques, from the
Byzantine models which they found in Syria and in the oldest
Byzantine-Christian edifices ongypt, and their pointed arches and
domes chiefly from the region of the Euphrates. At the same time
they contrived to impart to their works a certain individuality of
character, partly by the elegance of their forms and the preference
given to superficial over architectural decoration, and still more so
by the peculiar character of their ornamentation, resembling the
patterns of textile fabrics, and obviously imitated from walltapestry. Similar patterns appear also in their latticed windows.
their carved doors, and their diapered balconies.

The Exterior of these buildings is generally plain, consisting of
a lofty, rectangular enclosing wall of quadrangular plan, but not
entirely without relief in the form of projections and indentations.
in the mosques there are usually minarets and domes projecting
beyond this general outline, and this is still more commonly the
case with the public fountains (semi) and the mosque schools
(medreseh) above them. The portal, on the other hand, and certain
perpendicular sections of the building of various widths, generally
recede a little, the latter a few inches only, being again brought
forward immediately below the cornicing to the level of the facade
by means of a'stalactite' corbelling. In these last also the windows
are often inserted with little regard to symmetry. In the corners of
the projections thus formed, as well as in the other angles of the
building, we frequently find columns of marble inserted, or columns
been out of the material of the building, and detached to the extent
of three-fourths of their thickness. The whole plan of the stone
facades, which is not devoid of a certain degree of grandeur,
reminds us of those of the ancient Egyptian temples, although the
Muslims were generally scrupulously careful to avoid every resemblance to the pagan buildings. The portal is generally the richest
part of the edifice. The Windows are simpler, and less importance
is given to the principal cornice than the height and other dimensions of the building would seem to demand.

The Portals consist of rectangular niches, of such depth as to
allow room on the left and right outside the door for the mastabas,
or stone-benches used by the doorkeeper Lbawwab ]. This door





