176 BUILDINGS on THE DIUIIAMHEDA

niehe in the mosques rises nearly to the full height of the facade.
and terminates at the top either in asphere, or in a polygonal halfdome, partly ribbed, and partly embellished with pendentives or
'stalactites'. The two perpendicular mural pillars of the niche
approach each other towards the top, either in curved or in straight
lines converging at an acute angle. In neither case, however, do they
actually meet, the niche terminating above in a hemispherical dome,
which springs from the converging lines. The form of the entrance
varies considerably. in some cases it terminates above in an architrave, in others in a round or pointed arch, while fantastically
waxed or broken-arch forms are also not uncommon. The commonest
style in the mosques is the arehitrave form with segmental relieving
arches. A favourite practice was to pave the threshold with an ancient block of red or black granite, even if covered with hieroglyphics, and in many cases these venerable inscriptions are still
traceable. In the mosques, on the resting-place in front ofthe door,
is a low railing which marks the boundary to which the visitor may
penetrate without removing his shoes or sandals t

The Windows are more commonly rectangular than arched,
and are sometimes grouped in twos and threes, in which case they
are often tastefully adorned with round, oval, or star-shaped rosettes in plaster, perforated, and filled with coloured glass. This
arrangement has many points of resemblance to the Byzantine
and Romanesque styles. The window in the facades are frequently
surrounded with scrolls in low relief, and with flat bands or rollmouldings 0n the inside they are usually adorned with friezes in
plaster with arabesques.

Special importance was attached to the principal doors of mounmeutal buildings, which as a rule were massively mounted with
iron or bronze, or were constructed of pieces of wood of different
colours, ingeniously fitted together. The portals of some of the
mosques are embellished with bronze decorations, beautifully
embossed and chased. The doors in the interior of the buildings
are often richly inlaid with ebony and ivory

The home, a very salient feature in Mohammedan buildings,
especially in the mosques and mansolea, varies much in form;
the base of the structure projects beyond the square ground-plan of the edifice, and the summit rises above the enclosing wall.
The dome, which tapers upwards in an elliptical form and is
adorned with knobs and crescents, is blended with the quadrangular
interior of the mausoleum by means of pendentives; while, estt rually, the union of the cube with the sphere is somewhat masked
by the polwoual base of the dome. in some cases the transition is
cftcetwl by 1 loans of gradations resembling steps, each of which is





err, - frequented mosques the custodians provide slippers rmk v. uars. Fee t silver piastre.





-' --"---- - _



