BUILDINGS OF Tim MOIIAMMEDANS. 177

crowned with a half-pyramidal excrescence of the height ofthe stnep
These excrescenees might be regarded as external prolongations o.
the pendentives of the interior, but do not correspond with them if
position. The architects, however, doubtless intended to suggest
some such connection between the internal and external ornamentation. The domes are constructed partly of stone and partly
of brick, the pendants being of stone, or of plaster and lath-work,
and they are sometimes of considerable length. The finest are
probably those of the Khalifs' Tombs. The greatly elongated domes
of the Mameluke tombs have a second dome structure in their interior. The latter, lying much lower, supports walls placed in a
radiating form, which bear the upper dome. One of these dilapidated tombs (p. 327, affords a good opportunity of examining this
mode of construction. Neat it there is also a dome with alauteru, a
form quite foreign to the customary style of Arabian dome building.

It is a mistake to suppose that the joints are not cut in a straight
direction, but were formed in curved or broken lines which required each stone to be an exact counterpart of its neighbour.
This arrangement is occasionally seen in the case of straight or
flat segment-shaped plinths, but even there this kind of construction is often merely simulated by means of inlaid marble of
different colon p.

The Minarets [ from the Arabic mcnd'reh,'a signal' or'signalpost") are generally square at the base, tapering upwards, story by
story, until the form at length changes to that of an octagon or
cylinder. On these towers the architects have expended their utmost
skill, and the spectator will not fail to be struck by their graceful
proportions. The highest story is sometimes formed of pilasters,
or columns, which bear a roof, either consisting of one or more
dome--shaped protuberances with the symbol of El-Islam, or ora
simple conical point. They are generally built of substantial masonry, and contain Winding Staircases of stone leading to the
galleries of the different stories and to the balconies between them.
From these last the mueddins summon the faithful to prayer
(p. 147). The galleries are borne by projecting cornices, and the
balconies by brackets of similar construction. The wooden rods
and hooks at the top of the minarets are used for hanging up the
lamps during the fasting month of Ramadan. The mosques were
also formerly provided with external platforms (called meek-horas),
on which incense used to be burned on high festivals, so as to
diffuse sweet perfumes throughout the whole neighbourhood. The
mosque ot' El-Hakim is now the only one which still possesses
platforms of this kind.

The Public Fountains (sebils), with the Mosque Schools (viiedresehs)
on the first floor, are frequentlyiuclmled within the rectangular precincts of the mosques, but they sometimes project from them in a
circular form. The exterior of these buildings, and also of the open

BAEDEKER'S Egypt L 2nd Ed. 1?,



