175 BUILDINGS OF THE MOHAMMEDANS.

colonnades used for scholastic purposes, is frequently adorned with
detached columns, which is not the case with the religious edifices.

The Interiors of the mosques, on the other hand, are freely
embellished with columns, the court being usually bordered by a
colonnade, which is doubled or trebled on the side next the prayerniche (laibla).

Cain) presents no example of a distinct Arabian order of column,
and hardly a single Arabian capital, those actually executed by Arabs
(such as those adjoining the. prayer-recess of the mosques) being
imperfectly developed, and copied from Byzantine and Ptolemalan
models. The form of capital which seems peculiar to Cairo is very
simple and is also used as a base. Proceeding from the four corners
of the abacus in curved lines are four surfaces which unite below
with the ligature of the round or octagonal column. The numerous
columns which adorn the mosques and private houses originally
belonged, almost without exception, to Roman or Ptolennean structures, and sometimes to Christian churches. The Mohammedans
did not, however, employ columns belonging to the ancient Egyptian
temples unless they had already been remodelled and used in Creek
or Roman structures. Thus the Roman pedestals with remains of
hieroglyphics occasionally seen in the mosques must originally have
belonged to Egyptian temples. The architects of the mosques collected the columns they required for their purpose with little regard
to their dimensions. If they were too short, a pedestal, or a reversed capital was placed beneath them, regardless of the order to
which it belonged. Ionic and Corinthian columns are mingled promiscuously, and a certain degree of uniformity in the architecture
is only observed when the abacus is reached. On this last lies a
second abacus of sycamore wood secured by a wooden bar, from
which lamps are frequently suspended.

The arches of the Arcades are almost invariably pointed, being
at first round. while their sides go off at a tangent near the top; or
they gradually assume the keel-shape, being slightly curved inwards
below in the shape of a horseshoe. There are also other forms which
approach still more nearly to the Gothic pointed arch; and there
seems little doubt that this form, so early and so generally employed
at Cairo, was exported thence to Sicily, and became the type which
afterwards extended to Northern Europe Beyond this resemblance
in the form of the arch, however, and in some of the details of
the windows, the pointed style possesses nothing in common with
the Arabian. The Gothic gateway of marble between the mosques
of lialafin and Barlsulsiyeh (p. 278) in the Derb el-Nahhasin must,
therefore, be regarded as a work executed under European influence. The popular account of it is that it was brought from
some island.

The arcades of the mosques and other spacious halls are covered
with a flat Ceiling of open-work, of almost uniform height. The





