BUILDINGS OF THE MOHAMMEDANS. 179

junction of the walls and ceiling is generally masked by a pendent
cornice, or a cornice with a frieze for inscriptions. The beams
used in the construction ofthe ceilings are generally square at both
ends to a length of 3-5 ft., beyond which they are rounded below,
and frequently carved. The interstices between the beams are
sometimes divided into'coffers'; and proper coifered ceilings also
occur, as in the mosque Salaheddin Tusnf in the citadel (p.264).
In the corners of the apartments, as well as under the principal
architraves, pendants are generally placed to conceal the angles.
The earliest ceilings appear to have consisted of palm-trunks, and
then covered with boards ofsycamore wood, which were often richly
carved. The space immediately in front of the kibla (prayer niche)
usually terminated in a dome borne by columns. Spherical and
groined vaulting was used for smaller chambers only; but the
arcades ofthe Barlstsli mosque (p. 282), with their depressed spherical brick vaulting, form an exception to this rule. In secular
buildings the use of vaulting is much more frequent, as in the
case of the city-gate Bab en--Nasr (p. 230) and other arched passages. The entire ground-floors of palaces are also sometimes
vaulted, and bridges and aqueducts were usually executed in barrel
vaulting, or with pointed arches.

The Decorations generally consist of panelling or flat paintings,
destitute of structural meaning, while pilasters, cornices, and other
architectural embellishments are rare This species of ornamentation was doubtless originally suggested by the carpets, fringes,
and mats, used by the Arabs for covering their walls. The stalactite
corbellings, on the other hand, which mask the union of the vertical
with the horizontal parts of the building, and take the place of the
vaulting used in western architecture, are of a more structural
character; but even these perform no real architectural function,
and form a were fantastic decoration of the angles of the domes.

The panel and frieze decorations are either foliage, geometrical
figures, or written characters. The Foliage is usually shaped in
rectangular relief, with a few incisions to divide the broader
surfaces. The moulding is generally more or less in conformity
with the spirit of the classical style, but in the conventional
arabesques the leaves and other parts of plants of a southern
climate are recognisable. The Geometrical Figures consist either
of a kaleidoscopic arrangement of constantly recurring fantastic
forms, or of a series of intertwined and broken lines. Lastly,
the Arabic Written Characters with which the friezes are often
decorated, and more particularly the cutie and Siding characters,
are peculiarly well adapted for ornamental purposes, as they
resemble decorative foliage, although destitute of its strictly symmetrical and continuous character. When the writing is employed for lengthy inscriptions in low relief, the ground on which
it is placed is generally covered with slightly raised arabesques.

12*



