'_ ISO BUILDINGS OF THE MOHAMMFADA












Panels or { times bearing inscriptions of this character pmduve
wry rich and pleasing appearance. When viewed from a moderate
distance, especially if enhanced by colouring, the broad characters
stand out with great effect. The ground then resembles a network
of late, the delicate lines of the arabesques being indistinguishable except on close inspection. Sultan Tasan's mosque (p. 960)
contains a remarkably handsome frieze of this description The
large and bold characters on the mosques or private houses which
strike the eye of the traveller are almost invariably texts from the
herein. while historical notices in a small running character are
often inscribed on marble slabs over the entrances and the latticework of the sebils, where they are sometimes carvedin wood. Similar
inscriptions also occasionally occur in the halls of the interior.
The observer can scarcely fail to be struck with the apparently
capricious wayin which this ornamentation is distributed, the artist
liming sometimes lavished the whole richness of his arahesques
upon certain spots to the neglect of others. When this peculiarity
is more closely examined, it will be found that the parts thus
favoured are - (r) the Portals, which are embellished with a
framework of rich friezes, with rosettes to mark certain points,
with artistic sculpturing on the architrave, and with pendants in I
the ceiling of the niche; (2) the hliimrets, which it was customary
to place over or adjacent to the portals, but seldom from structural
motives; (3) the external surfaces of the Dome, which are sometimes
covered with arabesques, and sometimes with roll-mouldings
or wreaths; (A) the Kibla, with its handsome border, its capitals
and columns, which are often rich and beautiful, its fine mosaics.
its miniature pseudo-arcades; [ 5 ] the Pondents in the interior of
mausolenms; or) the Ceilings; (7) the Mambar (pulpit), which is
partly in stone and partly in wood. The lattice--work, windows,
doors, couches or sofas (dikkch), lanterns, and lamps are also much
ornamented. These last are sometimes made of very curious
enamelled glass, but few are now to he found in the mosques.
Colour does not perhaps play quite so conspicuous a part in the
l'rypto-Arahian monummlts as in the Spanish; but the Egyptian
artists, like those ofthe Alhambra, were also much addicted to the
useofhright colours, especially red, blue, yellow, gold, and white.
The ground of the decorative inscriptions is frequently deep blue.
while the letters are usually gilded. () n the whole, however.
painting was never so highly developed here as in Spain, where
the artists showed a certain appreciation ot'perspective by painting
the lower parts of their ".1113 with dark colours and gradually
shading them upwards with lighter and more brilliant tints. In
their colouring. as well as in their ornamental reliefs, it is obvious
that the Egyptian artists aimed at producing effect by contrasts
i In- Ipaveun-nt consists of the richest marble mosaic, for the mos
Pun"! dark colours, the walls are generally painted, and the cornice










