ILDINGS OF THE MOHAMMEDANS. 181

ceiling richly coloured and gilded. In the more important
ate houses we sometimes find the walls covered with majolica.
The traveller will also be struck with the beautiful effects of colour
produced by the Inlaid Work in the hiblas of certain mosques [ the
tombs of Kalm'm, Tulun, and Iiait Bey ], where marble, porphyry,
mother-of-pearl, and Venetian enamel have been combined. In
the case of Cabinet Work the colours used for inlaying are dark
brown, black (ebony), white Livery), and bronze. Externally the
dark yellowish stone of which the buildings were constructed
produced a naturally pleasing effect, which the architects occasionally endeavoured to enhance by colouring every alternate
course red or black; while important parts were adorned with
marble mosaic, majolicas, panelling, and gilding. Owing to the
mildness of the climate of Egypt much of the original colouring
has been preserved. but it must not be confounded with the rude
and staring painting of stone facades and marble ornaments executed on the occasion of the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869.

The secular edifices, like the sacred, and particularly the
Dwelling Houses, have also their characteristic peculiarities. The
ordinary town'houses are constructed of stone on the ground-floor,
and generally have an overhanging upper story. The projecting
parts sometimes rest on pillars, but more commonly on beautifully
carved brackets of peculiar form, and are provided with a kind of
bow-window, which serves the double purpose of ventilating the
house and of affording a view of the street to the women concealed
behind the lattice-work. The small perforated and generally octagonal balconies, with round holes at the bottom, are used for cooling
the drinking-water in porous vessels (ltlttlehs), whence they derive
their name of MushreMyehs (from sharab, a draught). These balconies are rectangular in shape, but their sides are sometimes arched,
and the lattice-work round them, composed of turned pieces of
wood, often forms an ingenious and elaborate pattern. The roofs
of these mushrebiyehs usually project in a tent-like form, and
instead of cornices they have pendent friezes cut out of boards.
The union of these projections with the surface of the wall below
is generally masked by means of richly carved and elegantly waved
mouldings with tasteful rosettes. Above the mushrebiyehs, which
rarely extend to the height of the apartment within, there are
usually introduced upper windows, with stucco frames, filled with
stained glass. - The Corniccs of the houses project but slightly,
curving a little outwards when pendentives are not employed;
and they are almost always crowned with pinnacles, which are often
most elaborately executed. We may also mention the curious form
ofcoruice seen in the Mameluke Tombs, where the projecting ends
of the roof-learns are serrated.

While bestowing their full timed of praise on the wonderfully
rich ornamentation and other details of Arabian architecture, one








