182 BUILDINGS or run uouAMMEDANS.

cannot help feeling that the style fails to give entire aesthetic
satisfaction. Want of symmetry in plan, poverty of articulation,
insufficiency ot'plastic. decoration. and an incongruous mingling of
stone and wood, are the imperfections which strike most northern
critics. The architects, in fact, bestowed the whole of their attention
on the decoration of surfaces; and down to the present day the
Arabian artists have always displayed far greater ability in tracing
elegant outlines, and designing the most complicated ornaments
and geometrical figures on plane surfaces, than in the treatment
and proportioning of masses. Although we occasionally see difti-.
culties of construction well overcome, as in the case of the interior
of the Bib en-Nay, these instances seem rather to be successful
experiments than the result of scientific workmanship. The real
excellence of the Arabian architects lay in their skill in masking
abrupt angles by the use of'stalactites' or brackets.

If we enquire into the causes of these defects in the development of art we shall find that the climate is one of the principal.
Its remarkable mildness and the rareness of rain have enabled architects to dispense with much that appears essential to the inhabitant of more northern latitudes; and hence the imperfect development and frequent absence of cornices. The extraordinary
durability of wood in Egypt, again, has led to its being used in
the construction of walls, and in connection with stone, in a manner which would never occur to northern architects. Another
circumstance unfavourable to the development of native art has
doubtless been the ease with which the architects obtained abundance of pillars and capitals in ancient buildings ready to their
hand. There were also political obstacles to the progress of art,
such as frequent intestine struggles and dissensions, and the
sway of despotic rulers and their servile officers; and, lastly, the
characteristic Egyptian tenacity and veneration for tradition and
religious precept have not been without their influence. The original design ofthe mosque, for example, was borrowed from Mecca.
and no deviation could be made from its plan; and this accounts
for the invariable recurrence of the same forms in the mosques of
Egypt. In a few instances architects ventured to introduce innovations, but they never. led to revert sooner or later to the
established style. The external architecture of private houses,
however, being unfettered by religious considerations, might have
progressed more favourably but for the powerful influence of superstition and fear. An external display of wealth, according to the
popular notion, drew upon its possessor the'evil eye' of the 00veIONS. the consequence of which was misfortune or death, while, on
the other hand, it afforded the government a pretext for extorting
heavy tum; from the occupant. It therefore became customary
with the Egyptians to restrict any appearance of luxury to the
interior of their harems. where it is exhibited in the sumptuous










