BUILDINGS OF THE MOHAMMEDANS. 183

furniture and hangings, and in the jewellery ofthe women. These
indications of wealth are never seen except by the proprietor's
nearest relations and the female friends of his wives, and are
effectually concealed from the view of the government and of the
general public.

With regard to Sculpture and Painting it will strike the traveller that the modern Egyptian chisel and brush have been reserved exclusively for the decoration of wall surfaces. Representations
of animals occur rarely, while those of the human figure were
prohibited by the Koran (camp. p. 218). The latter, however, are
occasionally met with. One of the Tulnnides, for example, caused
a festal hall to be adorned with painted wooden statues of himself,
his wives, and his favourite dancers; and at Cairo there was
even a famous manufactory of figures of men and animals at that
period. In the 11th cent, as we are informed, there were two celebrated painters at Cairo who vied with each other in the execution of relief pictures. One of them painted a dancer, who seemed
to be disappearing into the wall, while his rival painted another
who seemed to be coming out from it. El-Kitami's picture of
Joseph in the pit was also a far-famed work. On the whole, however, these branches of art were but little developed, the Egyptians resembling the Israelites in this respect. The Arabs were
more successful, however, in the prosecution of artistic handicrafts,
and excelled in the embellishment of all kinds of implements in
metal-work, enamel, inlaying, engraving, etc. Their decorative
ingenuity, developed by these arts quite as much as by the wall
decorations, and applied to textile fabrics also, has attained so
wide a celebrity, that the word'Arabesque' is now nearly synonymous with'ornament'. The word'Grotesque' was once similarly
applied to the western style of decoration borrowed by Raphael
and Giovanni da Udine from the'Grottoes' of the Baths of Titus at
Rome, and employed by them with singular success in the loggie
of the Vatican, but this word has long since lost its original
meaning.

The Mosques are divided, in accordance with their religious
importance, into two kinds: (I) those in which the sermon
(khutbeh) is preached on Fridays, called Game", - ('2) those in which
prayer only is offered daily except on Fridays, named Jfespidr,
or Ztftviya. The name mesgid, which has been imported from
Constantinople, is less frequently used than zawiya, which denotes a small mosque, consisting of one chamber only.

, It is from this word mesgid (which means a place for prostration),
that we derive the word mosque, through the Spanish mezquita and the
French mosquée.



