191 BUILDINGS 01" THE MOHAMMEDANS.

The Muslims also repeat their prayers at the grated windows of
the mausolea of their saints tshtkh, orlveli; see p. 152), behind
which is visible a catafalque, covered with bright coloured carpets,
but by no means invariably containing the remains ofthe holyman.
These weli's, or tombs of shékhs, occur in every part of the country, being frequently built into the houses, and are easily recognised by their cubic form and their domes. They are rarely more than a
4-" yds. square, and are generally whitewashed. The interior is
often empty and infested with scorpions and vermin.

Every Gami' has a court of considerable size, generally uncovered. called the Pasha, or Swim el- (Mutt", in the centre of which is
the Unnefiyeh, or fountain for religious ablution. On the B. side
the court is adjoined by the Ltw0n, covered with carpets or mats
Ijuf-Z'reh), where the sacred vessels are kept. Between the Liwan
and the court there often runs a mushrebiyeh railing which separates the holy place of the (iz'uui' from the court.

In the Liwan we observe: (i) the Kiblu or Miln'rib, the
prayer-niche turned towards Mecca; (2 ] the, Number, or pulpit, to
the right ofthe lgibla, from which the Khatib or Imam addresses the
faithful; (3) the Kursi [ p ]. Kev't'tsi' ], or reading-desk, on which the
[ (01511 (which is kept at other times in a cabinet of its own) lies t
open during divine service; (A) the inkkeh, a podium borne by columns, and surrounded by a low railing, from which the Mobulligh
[ assistants of the Khatib) repeat the words of the Koran, which is
read at the Hilda, for the benefit of the people at a distance;

(5 ] the various lamps and lanterns (lt'imlil and Minds). By the
side of the tialm el-Chimy is another small court with a basin of
water and other conveniences, which the faithful almost invariably
visit before entering the sacred precincts. Adjoining the Liwin is
usually placed the mausoleum ol' the founder of the mosque, called
Mulitttru, and farther distant, by the principal entrance, is the Sebil
(fountain) with the Medresch (school). Under the Sebil is a cistern,
which is tilled during the inundation of the Nile. These fountains
are often richly adorned with marble and bronze railings. They are
protected by a very projecting roof, and above them is the more orlcss
handsome school hall. The railingsarhence the water is distributed
are usually approached by several steps. The interior of the Sebil
consists of a single large chamber, the pavement of which is about
y, ft. below the level of the surrounding soil, and in it the water
drawn from the stem is placed in vessels for distribution at the
railings. Adjacent to the Sebils are sometimes placed troughs for
watering animals. The water stored in these cisterns is generally
in great re west in June, when the Nile water becomes unwholesome assuming a green colour caused by the presence of myriads
of miernsvolnically small plants. The Medreseh usually consists of
a single hall, with a store-room for its simple furniture.
('onsidrred with respect to their ground-plans, the mosques are


















