UILDINGS OF THE MOHAMMEDANS. 185














































ed in two leading groups: (r) those of rectangular plan, with
ypttethrttl columns or pilasters round the open court (see plan of the
mosques of (Amr, p. 3'24, and Bari } b, p. 9°52); and (2) those
which have a rectangular or cruciform court surrounded by closed
rooms, like the mosque of Sultan [ lawn and most of the tomb
mosques, or those where the tomb is of large size compared with the
Sahn el--Gami'.

The TOMBS of the Muslims (comp. also p. 155) are generally
situated on high ground, uninfluenccd by the moisture ofthe river,
and sometimes in the desert. The chambers are destitute of decoration. Within is a catafalque of stone resting on a more or less decorated pedestal, and bearing two upright columns (Shc'thid) of marble
or other stone, one of which, placed immediately over the head of
the deceased, bears his name and age, with texts from the Koran. At
the top of the shfihid is represented the turban of the deceased, the
form of which indicates his rank. Over the catafalques of persons
of distinction are erected dome-shaped canopies, resting on four
columns or pilasters, or their tombs have the closed form of those
of the shékhs already mentioned. On festivals the catafalques
and hollow parts of the pedestals are covered with palm-branches,
flowers, and basilicum. On these occasions the friends, and especially the female relatives, of the deceased often spend whole days
by the tomb, engaged in prayer and almsgiving. For these mourners it was necessary to provide accommodation, and the result is
that a complete mausoleum, with its rooms for the family, sebil,
school, stables, custodian's residence, etc., is often nearly as extensive as the mosques themselves, while some of them are so large
as almost to present the appearance of a small deserted town. To
buildings of this kind the name ofl.% sh is applied. One of the most
imposing of these is the tomb-mosque of Sultan liarlgfilg.

The Dwelling- Houses, which rarely have more than two
stories, are built in very various styles, but the following rules are
generally observed in their construction: - (1) The principal
rooms, particularly those of the Harem (p. 187), look into the court
or garden, if there be one. (2) The windows looking to the street
are smaller placed very high, and strongly barred, while those
of the upper floors are closed with mushrebiyeh (p. 181), which,
however, are gradually being superseded by glass-windows with
shutters. (3) The entrance-door LP ]. I, 1, l), behind which is the
seat (Aims-tuba, Pl. I, 2) of the doorkeeper, is generally low and
narrow, and the passage (Pl. L 3) leading from the street to the
court is built in the form of an angle, to prevent people from seeing
into the court. (-1,) The court (we, Pl. I, j) is planted with trees and
unpaved, and contains a well of water that has filtered through from
the Nile. This water, however, is generally more or less brackish,
and is used only for washing purposes and for the cattle. (P) By
the entrance to the court, and on the same level, is the) Imn'lum














