INTRODUCTION.

"shall now speak at greater length of
Egypt, as it contains more wonders than
(my other land, and is pve-eminent above
an the countries in the world for works
that one can hardly describe?

HERODOTUS (B. C. 456).

At the close of let century Egypt was in a great measure rediscovered by the French savants attached to Bonaparte"; Egyptian
expedition. Since that period it has attracted the ever-increasing
attention of the scientific; its historical and archaeological marvels
have been gradually unveiled to the world it is the most ancient,
and was yet at one time the most civilised country of antiquity;
and it therefore cannot fail to awaken the profoundest interest in
all students of the history and development of human culture

Like other countries of the far East, Egypt possesses for the
'Frank' traveller the twofold attraction of scenery and history. To
the first category belong the peculiar charms of its Oriental climate,
the singularly clear atmosphere, the wonderful colouring and effects
of light and shade, such as are unknown in more northern climates,
the exuberant fertility of the cultivated districts contrasted with the
solemn, awe-inspiring desert, and the manners, customs and appearance of a most interesting though not always pleasing, population. At the same time Egypt is pre-eminent among the countries of the East, and indeed among those of the whole world, as the
cradle of history and of human culture. At every step we encounter venerable monuments which have survived the destructive
influences of thousands of years and the vandalism of invaders and
conquerors, and which are executed on so grand a scale, with so
much artistic skill, and with such historical consistency, as at
once to excite our highest admiration and command our most profound respect.

Owing to its distance from the homes of most travellers, and to
the expense involved in exploring it, Egypt will never be overrun
by tourists to the same extent as Switzerland or Italy; but it is now
reached without difficulty by one of the numerous Mediterranean
steamboat lines, and increased facilities are afforded to travellers
by the recent construction of railways (p. It) within the country
itself, while its unrivalled attractions abundantly reward the enterprising traveller and supply him with a subject oflife- long interest.

Bantams Egypt 1.2nd Ed. l






