ARABIC L., i.









































\lmtllor door usually leads direct from the apartment

prictor into the harem (PL l, J). At the back of the bu
'..
kin-hens and stables, and frequently a mill also. In t
country, and own at Cairo, the entrance-door is sometimes paint
with very rude figures of camels, lions, steamboats, etc., which
are intended to indicate that the owner has performed the pilgr range to Mecca (p. 148).

X. The Arabic Language.

Arabic belongs to the Sen) ie group of languages, and has no
relationship with the tongues of Europe. A knowledge of Hebrew,
however, will materially facilitate the learning of Arabic. The
gulch-n era of Arabic literature is coeval with the introduction of
lil- and the Koran in the dialect of the hureish (the
family of Muhammed) is still regarded as an unrivalled model of
style and language. As Ill-Islam spread from its narrow home over
the vast territories that gradually acknowledged the Crescent. Arabic
lost many of its older and fuller forms and was greatly simplified
for daily use. In this way arose the vulgar dialects of Ambit, of
which that spoken in Egypt is one. In writing. however, an attempt was made to retain the older forms, and the written language of the present day, known as Middle Arabic. occupies a poritirm midway between the original classical tongue and the popular
t ialerts. Egypt was conquered by the Arabs in the 19th year of
the llegira (Git) A.D.') and the Coptic language was replaced by
Arabic. The dialect of the latter developed in the valley of the
Nile s1iiTcrs considerably in the pronunciation of the consonants.

ucalisatiou, and accent from the ordinary Arabic dialects of Syria
add elsewhere. Thus the letter a is pronounced hard in Egypt and
oft in Syria (see p. 190'). The variations, however, are not so great
as to prevent the Syrians and Egyptians being mutually intelligible.

A sharply defined and exact pronunciation of the consOnants is
characteristic of Arabic and is absolutely essential to any satisfactory use of the language. The learner should endeavour at once to
master the pronunciation of the more difllcnlt Arabic consonants.

. tell as I", so as, for example, to be able

makr- a distinct difl'erence between bét (house) and bid (eggs).
Mauy of the sounds have no representatives in English. Owing to
tln- inn-nu- sing intercourse between the native Egyptians and Europe.
the "( inner have of late adopted many words from other languages,
c'htl.s from Italian and r'rcueh. 3lanyArabie words have, moreover,
I. I: iill'e been rr'plar'ed by Turkish equivalents. The Egyptian
Il'flIi-I't al., I'ontairns many Coptic or ancient Egyptian words. Very
t'. o European. » learn to pronounce Arabic accurately, even after
rt oitlrno u vl many) wars in the country.



