ARABIC LANGUAGE ISO

The language of the peasantry and the inhabitants of the desert is purer and more akin to the classical language than that of
the dwellers in towns. The Muslims generally speak more correctly
than the Christians, being aerustomed to a refined diction and
pronunciation from their daily repetition of passages of the Koran.
The chief difference between the language of the Korin mid the
modern colloquial dialect is that a number of terminal intlexions
are drOpped in the latter.

Alphabet. The Arabic alphabet was developed from that of the
Nabatzl'ans, who in turn adopted their written characters from the
Palmyreues. In spite of its external attractions, it is one of the
most imperfect in existence. In written or printed Arabic the
short vowels are usually omitted and have to be supplied by the
reader, a feat which demands considerable skill and experience. In
the Koran, however, the vowels are all indicated by appropriate
signs. It is greatly to be wished that the Arabs would adopt a
simpler alphabet, with a regular use of the vowel-signs, and that
they would agree to write the ordinary spoken language. The present condition of affairs not only seriously increases a stranger's difficulties in learning the language, but is a serious obstacle to the
education of the Arabs themselves.

We give below the sounds corresponding to the different letters,
so far as it is possible to represent or describe them to the English
reader. It should also be observed that in the following pages we
use the vowel sounds of a, c, i, o, u as they are used in Italian (ah,
eh, 00,0,001 The 6 used in the Handbook is a contracted form of ti,
and is used in preference to it, as it exactly represents the ordinary
pronunciation (viz. that of a in fate). The original diphthong
sound of at is only used in the reading of the Koran and in a few
isolated distritts. Where a sound resembling the French u occurs
it is represented by it (as in t1 iinj. This system of transliteration
will be found most convenient, as the words will then generally
resemble the forms used in German, French, and Italian, instead
of being distorted to suit the English pronunciation. Thus: cmfr,
which is pronounced Uymeer'; sldikh Cor sheikhl, pronounced
'shake' (with a guttural k); tulfll, pronounced'toolool'; Abusir,
pronounced'Abooseer'; etc.

VOWELS. The short vowel symbols, Frrtlzath, [ Cm-rah, and Dummeh (it, if, if), which are generally omitted, become long when connected with Alef, Watt, and Ye (a, E, t, 6, 17,, an).

The numerous gutturals ofArabic render the language unpleasing to the ear. The consonants Nos. 15, Hi, and'21, which are
sometimes called'emphatic', are very peculiar, and modify the
vowels connected with them: thus after them a and u approach the
sound of o, and i that of c. The sounds of the French u and all
[ German ii and 6) are rare in colloquial Arabic.



