ARABIC LANGUAGE. 191



vowel), or with a syllable ending in a double consonant, the accent
is placed on the last syllable (as in maghndfls, bddingan, ut'mdz,
kete'bt, taghtcimm, each of which has the stress on the last syllable).
Ifthe last syllable has any other form, i.e. if it terminates in a vowel
only, or in a consonant preceded by a short vowel, the accent in the
case of a dissyllable is on the first syllable (as in gézmclx, blimus,
f12rsha, re'di ], and in the case of a trisyllable or polysyllable 0n the
third syllable from the end (as mrhmala, mdhbam, mddmch), except when the penultimate is a long syllable (as in sib0niU0, in
which case the accent is on that syllable.

ADDRESS. The inhabitants of towns use the 2nd person plural in addressing a person, or a periphrasis, such as gendbak (your honour ], lmtlretak (your presence), or to a patriarch gimbtatkma, to (O sir) is also frequently used, and to Europeans, ya khawagtzlh

Possessxves. These are expressed by means of affixes. Thus, um,
my daughter, binlak til: when the person addressed is feminine), thy
daughter; Mata, his daughter; binthd, or biatahd, her daughter; bintnd
or bintind, our daughter; bintkum 0r bintztkum, your (pl. ll daughter; bintuhum, their daughter. The idea of possession is colloquially expressed
by the use of the word belti' ('prvpevty'h eh er-rabd bifi, my slave ('the
slave my property)

ARTICLE. The definite article at or al is assimilated before dentals,
sibilants, and the letters a and r: thus, esh-shcms, the sun, etc.

DEMONSTRATIVES. In Egypt the word'this' is rendered by de, fem.
dig as gil Je, this man; el-bint di, this girl. The Beduins use the
old Arabic and Syrian Adda.'These', (161.'That', mite, dzlkhrt, dukhauwa,
dilemma; plural dukhamma.

RELATIVE: em, omitted after substantives used in a general sense.

INTEJmoeATIVEs. Who, min; what, Eh, I

DECLENSIUN. The substantive is not declinable. The genitive of a
substantive is formed by simply placing it immediately after the substantive to be qualified, the latter being deprived of its article: thus,
ibn el-bdsha, the son of the pasha. The feminine terminations a, e, a are
in such cases changed into al, at, it: thus mam, wife; mural « treat, the
wife of the judge.

DUAL. The dual termination is en, fem. etEa: thus seneh, year;
senetén, two years; rigl, foot; rigle'a, two feet.

PLURAL. In the masculine the termination is in (as felldlitn, peasants), in the feminine at (as Zldm, town, quarter, etc., pl, admit). The
plural is, however, usually formed by a radical change of the vowel
sounds of the singular, the change being effected in thirty or forty different ways, so that it becomes necessary for the learner to note carefully
the plural form of every substantive: thus,'ai, spring, pl.'aydn-, mm,
merchant, pl. tuggdr; gebet, mountain, pl. gibdl; lmbl'leh, tribe of Beduins,
pl. ltabdil.

VERBS. Many of the verbs consist of slightly differing cognate roots,
connected somewhat in the same manner as the English verbs lay and
lie. Each verb consists of a perfect and present imperfect tense, an
imperative, a participle, and an infinitive.

The above remarks are made merely in order to afford a slight
idea of the structure of the language. the difficulties of which are
such that few persons will venture to ncounter them, unless they
make a prolonged stay in the country. We should, however, recommend the traveller to commit to memory the following words
and phrases of everyday occurrence, a knowledge of which will often

prove useful.



