I. Preliminary Information.
(l). Plan of Tour. Season. Companions. Routes.

PLAN. The facilities for travel in Egypt are now such that the
intending visitor may make an outline of his tour at home with
almost as great ease as for most of the countries of Europe. During
the travelling season, moreover, the weather is always line (comp.
p. 67), and never causes disappointment and derangement of plans
as in most other countries. If, therefore, the traveller from a more
northern region retains his energy in this somewhat enervating
climate, and resists the undoubted attractions of the'dolee far
niente', he will have no difficulty in disposing of every day to advantage.

Season. From the beginning of November till the middle or
end of April there are but few days of bad weather in the interior
of Egypt; the prevalent temperature is that of a delicious spring or
moderate summer, and the few drops of rain that occasionally fall
will hardly be observed by the European traveller. The fertilising
inundation of the Nile (p. 57) has by this time subsided, and the
whole face of the country smiles with fresh verdure. About the
end of April, and sometimes as early as March, begins the period
ofthe Khamsinw, U9), a sultry, parching, and enervating wind
from the desert, prevailing at longer or shorter intervals for about
fifty days (whence the tunnel, though in some seasons it does not
make its appearance at all. 7 Winter is therefore the proper season
tor a tour in Egypt. Those travellers. however, who can endure
the fierce, glare of an African summer sun will at that season have
the advantage of seeing the extent of the overflow of the Nile, and
will find that price are then generally much lower than in winter.
(Compare also p. "MO

anmmoxs. The traveller uanhardlybe recommended to start
alone for a tour in a country whose customs and language are so
entirely different from his own; but, if he has been unable to make
up a suitable party at home, he will probably have an opportunity
of doing so at Alexandria or Cairo, or possibly at Suer, or I'ort Sa'id.
Travelling as a member of a party is, moreover, much less expensive than travelling alone, many of the items being the same for
a single traveller as for several together, Apart, however, from the
pecuniary advantage, a party is more likely to succeed in making
satisfactory arrangements with the natives with whom they have
to til [ Voyage up the Nile, see vol. ii journey to Mt. Sinai,
it. 10.)

How" A glimpse at Lower Egypt, i.e. Alexandria, Cairo,
and the tin r. Canal, may he obtained in three weeks (exclusive of
the journey out); and the traveller may distribute his time as
follows:


