'200 LITERATURE



ordinary traveller. as the natives are too apt to rcgartltgifts
presented to them by Europeans as their right. 1

1111 leaving: Good bye. Al Allah. Or: To God's protection. l-'i
orMn mo. Or: Now let' go on. Julia Lina. - Generally speaking, the person leaving says nothing. unless when about to start on
a long journey, in which case he says: Peace be with you. Mu'usmtrima.

Uutheroute: Welcome. Ahlan wasahlan, ormarhaba. Answer:
Twice welcome. Jhtryubttn.

I beg you (to enter, to eat, to take something ]. Tafaddul
(lemMut, itfugldul); fem tafudgldli (itfatlcldli); plur.ta/hily0u
(it/hdglr'tlu, te/'udduluL - Will you not join us 011 eating)? Bismillnh (literally'in God's name). Answer: May it agree with y, on
Bil/tuna.

Take care; beware. Ulm (17a), - fem. 1211' (1'1'1').

lam under your protection; save me. Fu'rrluk (fl'arglak). My house is thy house. Béti bétuk [ p.'24 )--lie so good. E'mel
mu'ruf.

What God pleases ('happens', understood). Jldshallah (an
exclamation of surprise) .---- As God pleases. Inshnlluh. - By
God. mean, or walléhi. - By thy head. Wahydt résuk. - By
the life of the prophet. Waliytt en-nebi. - God forbid. Lstuphfir
Allah!

XI. Works on Egypt.

The traveller who desires more than a mere superficial acquaintance with the land of the Pharaohs, the history of which is the
most ancient and in some respects the most interesting in the
world, should of course before leaving home read some of the
standard works on the subject, and also select a number of others
for reference or entertainment during the journey. This is all the
more necessary if the traveller is entirely ignorant of the ancient
and modern languages of the country, in which case he will find it
difficult, if not impossible, to institute independent enquiries as
to its manners, literature, and art. From the appended list, which
might easily be extended, the traveller may make a selection in
accordance with his individual taste. Those indicated by asterisks
:10 among the most indispensable.

lefore eumueratiug the works which most English travellers
will read, we may mention a few of the leading foreign authorities
on llgypt lnrunmst among these are 1 ]. thiopieu, L' halupollion s'\lonuments de l ligypte
ct de la \ubio, lioselliui s'Blouumenti dell Egitto e della Nubia, I
and thc'Dcscriptiou 110 114 gypto published by the members of the
Hour ]. expedition. Schnaase, Kugler, Liibke, l1rbham and Reber
haw 11 r1tteu valuable works on the history of y'. gyptian art; Forskal,



