204 Route 1. ALEXANDRIA.



mine here, surrounded by his army, for a considerable part of the.
The older palace. to the left. on the prominent Has et-Tin (cape 0 figs,
p. 2191, and the Arsenal are comparatively uninteresting, especially as
the busy harbour itself now engrosscs the whole attention. The steamer
is soon surrounded by numerous small heats, the occupants of which
{ ix-utter their services with animated gesticulations. As soon as the brief
sanitary inSpection is over, the boatmen swarm wildly on dock like a
piratical crew, eager to secure a fare, and reminding the traveller of a
scene from lleyerbeer's Africaine. In the midst of this hustle and confusit n the following Arabic words may he found useful: - Law, come;
shrV, look here; mush "drunk, I don't want you; mush lztziut, it is not
necessary; imshi or nth, begone. A supply of half-franc pieces and sons
should be kept in readiness for the occasion.

Having sufficiently surveyed the novel and picturesque scene, the
traveller engages a boatman to convey him and his luggage ashore, or,
especially if ladies are of the party (see below), he gets one of the hotel
agents to manage everything for him. Before leaving the vesselhe should
keep a watchful eye on his luggage, and see that the whole ofit is placed
in the boat which he himself is going to use. As soon as the boat is
clear of the steamer the Arab hoists his sail, for he never rows unless
absolutely obliged, and steers for the custom house. Any importunity as
to the fare may be simply answered with -'tayyib, yalla' (all
right. make haste ].

() n reaching the landing-stage of the Custom- 1101159 W I 21), the traveller is first conducted to the passport-office (to the left, in the passage),
and gim up his passport, which is afterwards restored to him at the
consulate at Alexandria, or he may have it sent after him to Cairo.

Meanwhile the luggage has been landed, and the traveller, if alone,
and with ordinary luggage, pays the buatman'We Ir, or for 2 persons
41-5 flu, and for each additional person 1 fr. more. The porter who carries
the luggage into the custom-house and afterwards to a cab expects 25¢.
for each package. All these rates of payment are amply remunerative,
hut'halgshish' (p. 16) is invariably asked for, and the word will resound
in the traveller's ears throughout the whole of his jouL-LLe ngs in the
East and even long afterwards.

The custom-house examination is generally pretty rigorous, the articles chiefly sought for being tobacco, weapon », and diamonds. No fee
need be given to the officials.,

As already observed, it is preferable, especially when ladies are of
the party, to secure the services of one of the hotel agents, who relieves the traveller of all trouble, pays boatmen and porters, and assists
in clearing luggage at the custom--house. In addition to his outlay, he
receives a fee of 21/2fr. from a single traveller, or more in proportion
for a party. The principal hotels now send their own how to meet
the steamers. The traveller who wishes to ensure a comfortable
disemharkalinn may write beforehand to the hotel at'which he means
to put up, and desire a commissionnaire, a boat, and a carriage to meet
him. The usual charge in this case for a party of three persons is: boat from the steamer to the custom--house 5 fr., luggage-boat 2 fr., porter
and fee to custom-house officers 2fr. 75, carriage to the hotel Wztr.,
carriage of luggage 2th, or Ihr. 256. in all.

At the egress of the custom-house a noisy and importunate crowd
of carriage-drivers and donkey-boys lies in wait for new comers. Neither
walking imr riding is recommended to the traveller on his first arrival,
and In had better drive straight to his hotel. Carriage to the holds
ti', Mn. Y., or fur 3-1 persons 3-4132; donkey I/si, porter for each
l; rrge Plat LLLL Arr.

Hotels. tlt may again be remarked here that all the hotels in the
tsust Cllflrtll: a fixed sum per day for board and lodging, exclusive of
liquors, whether the traveller takes his meals in the house or not.)

Itr'rrr K Wm [ Pl. a- (LA), near the Cairo station, in the finest part
ut the town. with good cuisine; ",1), O, in the Place
d, l'Jo'glise, Well situated. - Second class: I, CANAL or: Suez, behind












