EXPENSES. 3

Alexandria.... 11/2 Days.
Railway to Cairo 1, or including Tanta... 11/2 Cairo and its environs, the Pyramids, Me... IO Railway to Suez and May there..... 3
Visit to the Springs of Moses...... 1 Railway to Isma ihya'.. 1 Steamer on the Suez Canal to Port Said.. 1 Days of rest......... .. 2 21 Days.

These three weeks, however, might be spent very pleasantly
at Cairo alone.
A visit to Mt. Sinai requires...... 18-21 Days.
The Fayum....... . 4-6 Voyage up the Nile and beck (a) By steamer, as far as Assuim and back, 21;
thence, from above the first cataract to Abu
Simbel near the second cataract, and back 11 32 (b) By dahabiyeh to Assu'an, and back, about 50 (c) By dahabiyeh to Abu Simbel and back.. 90 A complete tour through Egypt, including the Nile and the peninsula of Mt. Sinai, will thus occupy 3-5 months in all.

(2). Expenses. Money.

EXPENSES. The cost of a tour in Egypt, and in Oriental countries generally, is considerably greater than that ofa visit to any
part of Europe, the reasons being that most travellers cannot canform with the simple habits of the natives, that they are ignorant
of the language, and that special arrangements have to be made to
meet their requirements. The average charge at the hotels for a
day s board and lodging is 15-25 fr., without wine (compare p. 17).
The cheapest wine costs 34 fr. per bottle; English beer q -21/.a. fr.; the traveller's hotel expenses will therefore amount
to at least 90-30 fr. a day, to which must be added the hire of donkeys and carriages and the inevitable'pourboires'. The total day s
expenditure should therefore be estimated at 30 fr. at least. (Steamboat- fares are of course extra; p. 10).

The traveller whose time is very limited, or who is accompanied
by ladies, will also require the services of a guide or valet--de-place,
or'dragoman, as they prefer to style themselves [ 5-8 fr. per day).

MONEY. A small sum of money for the early part ofthe journey
may be taken in English or French gold, or in English banknotes,
but large sums should always be in the form of circular notes.
These notes, which if kept separate from the'letter of indication'
cannot be cashed by a thief or a dishonest finder, are issued by the
principal LoudOn banks. -Fresh supplies may be forwarded from
England by post-office order, in sums not exceeding 500 fr.

1 i"



