m. ALEXANDRIA. 1. Route. 207

name, after which we may drive to the new Quays at Mel's (p. 221). if
time permits, a drive may also be taken (best in the afternoon) along
the Malnnadiyeh Canal to the Palace Number Three (Nimreh Telateh) and the
public gardens of thénet en-Aretha (p. 220), both situated on the canal.

History. Alexandria was founded in B.C. 332 by Alexander
the Great, forming a magnificent and lasting memorial ofhis Egyptian campaign. With the foundation of the city are associated a
number of legends to the effect that the coast, opposite the island
of Pharos, was specially pointed out by divine omens to the Macedonian monarch as a suitable site for the foundation of a new
seaport. i In the time of Alexander there were several harbours on
the N. coast of Egypt. The most important were those of Naueratis,
at the w. (Genome) mouth of the Nile, chiefly used by Greek vessels
after the 26th Dynasty (p. 92 ], and Tanis and Pelusium on the
NE. side of the Delta, at the two embouchures bearing the same
names, to which Egyptian and thnician vessels only seem to
have been admitted. Alexander, who had overthrown the barriers
which had hitherto separated the nations dwelling on the E.
shores of the Mediterranean, conceived the plan of founding a
new and splendid seaport town in Egypt, both to facilitate the
flow of Egypt's wealth towards Greece and the Archipelago, and
to connect the venerable kingdom of the Pharaohs with that
widely extended Greek empire which it was his great ambition
to found. The site chosen by the king was not, however, an
entirely new one. On the coast opposite the island of Pharos
(p. 2080, as we learn from the monuments, had long stood the
Egyptian village of Rhakotis, where, as Strabo records, a guard
was posted to ensure the safety of the frontier. It seems strange
at first sight that the new seaport should have been founded at
the W. extremity of the coast of the Delta instead of on the old
harbour of Pelusium at the E. end, which lay close to the Red Sea
and to the caravan route between Egypt and Syria, and might easily
have been extended so as to suit Alexander's requirements. The
fact is, however, that the far-seeing founder really made a most
judicious choice; for it has been recently ascertained that a current
in the Mediterranean, beginning at the Strait of Gibraltar, Washes
the whole of the N. African coast, and, when it meets the waters of
the Nile, it carries the vast deposits of the river towards the E., and

, A venerable old man is said to have appeared to the king in a dream
and to have repeated to him the following lines from Homer (0d. iv. M, 55):
'One of the islands He)! in the far-foaming waves of the seat

Opposite Egypt's river. and its name is leros".
The following incident was also regarded as a favourable omen. As Dinocrates, the king's architect, was marking out the plan of the town and
the sites of the principal buildings, the white earth used for the purpose ran short. and he supplied its place with the flour belonging to his
workmen. The flour soon attracted numerous birds, by which it was
speedily devoured, whereupon Aristander pronounced this incident to be a
prognostication of the future wealth and commercial prosperity of the city.



