211% Route 1. ALEXANDRIA.



has thus tllled the old harbour of Pelusium with mud. The action
of this current also endangers the new harbour (Port Sail, p. 436),
and on its way towards the N. it has already choked up the famous
ancient ports of Ascalon, Sidon, and Tyre. Even Herodotus
remarked that the Nile mud rendered the water shallow off the
coast of the Delta; and it was doubtless a knowledge of these
circumstances which led to the selection ofa site for the city of
Alexander on the W. side of the mouths of the Nile.

TOPUGILAPIIY OF ANCIENT ALEXANDRIA. The site selected for the new
city, which the able architect l inocrates laid out in the form of a
Macedonian cloak (chlamys), was in every respect a favourable one.
() u the N. side it was washed by the Mediterranean, and on the S. side
by Lake llarcotis, which was abundantly fed by numerous canals connected
with the Nile The products of Egypt could be brought down by the
river to the city, and thence at once shipped to any part of the Mediterranean. The island of Pharos lay opposite to the mainland.'Now Pharos'.
says Strabo (B. C. 66 24 Bk. xvi c 6), who describes Alexandria in
the lith Book of his Geography.'is a long-shaped island, almost connected
with the mainland, where it forms a harbour with two entrances. For
the two promontories thrown out by the shore form a bay, and between
these lies the island by which the bay is closed.... The E end of the
island of Pharos is nearest to the mainland and to the promontory called
Lochias, and makes the entrance to the harbour narrow. This strait is
further narrowed by rocks. partly covered by the water. and partly above
the water. which cause the waves of the sea to break into surf as they
enter. The extremity of the island itself is also a rock washed by the
sea. hearing a tower beautifully constructed of white stone with many
stories. and named after the island. This tower was erected by Sostratus
of t'nidus' .--The tower mentioned by Strabo was the famous lighthouse
built in the reign of Ptolemy Philadelphus, which was regarded by the
ancients as one of the wonders of the world, and gave its name of
'Pharos' to all lighthouses afterwards erected. It bore the inscription:
1110s, the Cmid phanes. 111 the gods who protect
mariners". It is said by an Arabian historian to have stood at the E
end of the peninsulanow called Burg czAZr' er; and he describes its ruins
as consisting of a square substructure 110 ells in height, an och onal
second story of 60 ells. and a round superstructure nf 63 ells, 0r 2" 8115
in all. while its original height is said to have been 400 ells 1590 ft ].
'Tue ly entrance to the harbour', continues Strabo (111. M ],'is also
somewhat difficult of access, but does not demand so great caution as the
other. lt forms a second harbour, called Eunostus-l- (or'harbour of the
111111111 111111111 which 111-11 1111111111116 the artificial and enclosed harbour.
The other. which has its entrance by the already mentioned tower of
Pharos, is the Great Harbour (comp. p. 203). The others are separated
from it by on embankment called the Neptustadium, and lie contiguous
to each other in the recess of the bay. The embankment forms abridge
which extends from the mainland to the western part of the island. and has
two passages, bridged over, and leading into the harbour of Eunoslus. This
structure, besides forming abridge to the island, served also as an aqueduct
when the island was inhabited. But, as it took the side of the kings in
the war against Alexandria, the island was laid waste by the divine Cmsar.'

The lleptastadimn, a vast embankment of seven stadia in length
111111 yd 1 "its name imports, was constructed hy Ptolemy Soter, or his
111111 11111 a0lyhusrnud having since that period been artificially enlarged
by debrir from the ancient city, thrown into the sea, as well as by
natural deposits, it has now attained a width nfmmc than 1600 yds. The

, This is the l (comp. p. 203).



