"Alexandria. ALEXANDRIA. l, Route. 209

embankment now forms the site of a great part of the modern city, and
on its W. side is situated the Custom House, where the traveller first sets
foot on Egyptian soil.

'To the right of the entrance to the Great Harbour', Strabo then goes
on to say (ib., e 9),'lies the island with the tower of Phacos, and on the
side are the rocks and the promontory of Lochias-l', on which stands a
royal castle. To the left of persons entering are the inner royal buildings connected with Lochias, which comprise painted saloons and groves.
Below these lies an artificial harbour, appropriated to the kings. and
closed, and opposite to it is the small island of Antirrhodus, with a
royal castle and another small harbour. The island was so named from
being, as it were, a rival of Rhodes. Above it lies the theatre. Beyond
this is the Poseidium, a curved promontory which runs out from the
Emporium (or market-place), and to which Antony added an embankment
projecting still more towards the middle of the harbour. At the end of
this embankment be erected a royal residence which he called Timonium.
This was his last work, when after his defeat at Actium, deserted by his
friends, he crossed to Alexandria and determined for a time to lead the
life of a Timon (or Temple
of Caesar), with the market-place and warehouses. Such are the surroundings
of the Great Harbour. G 10) Immediately beyond the Heptastadium is
the harbour of Eunostus, and above it the artificial harbour, sometimes
called Cibotus (literally, the box), which also has docks. From this
harbour runs a navigable canal to Lake Mareotis'.

Among the PRINCIPAL QUARTERS of the ancient city we may first
mention the Necropolis, or city of the dead, at the extreme W. end,
where there are many gardens, tombs, and establishments for embalming
bodies' (Strabo, xvii. IO), and Rhakotis,'the quarter of Alexandria
situated above the ships' magazines' (Strabo, i. 6), the most ancient
part of the city, and chiefly inhabited by Egyptians. The Bruchium
quarter, which was walled in, and contained the palaces and public
buildings, lay on the mainland between Lochias and the Heptastadium,
while the Jews" quarter was situated to the E. of Lochias, between the
sea and the main street, the E and of which was closed by the Canopic
gate. Outside the gate lay the hippodrome, and farther to the E. was
the suburb of Nicopolis, 30 stadia from Alexandria, which possessed an
amphitheatre and a race-course, and where the quinquennial games were
celebrated (Strabo, xvii. c. I. ยง 10).

With regard to the STREETS of ancient Alexandria, Strabo (ib. N)
has the following passage: "The whole town, indeed, is intersected with
streets practicable res wagons and riders, but the two broadest of them
are more than a hundred feet in width and cross each other at a right
angle.'--This statement has been confirmed and supplemented by the
excavations of Mahmud-Bey, who has discovered traces of a rectangular
network of streets. seven of them running lengthwise, from wisw, to
E.N.E., and twelve breadthwise, from wa. to S.S.E. He has also
identified the two main streets mentioned by Strabo, the more important
of which probably coincided with the modern Rue de la Forte Rosette,
beginning at the Gate of Rosetta, the ancient Canopic gate, intersecting
the town, and at its W. end deviating from the straight line._ This street
is still the most important in the town, and it is probably indebted for
its long existence to the conduit constructed under it at an.ea.rly period,
which still supplies the cisterns with Nile water. Of the buildings which
once flanked this street a few relics only now exist, but the excavations
have brought to light distinct traces of the old pavement, which consisted
of blocks of granite, and have established the fact that the street was
about 45 ft. in width, or double that of the other streets. On each side
of the causeway ran foot-pavements with arcades, of which, however.
the traces are but scanty. - The important cross-street mentioned by
smith) has been discovered by Mahmud-Bey on the E. side of the town.

- + New much reduced in extent, owing to the dilapidation of the
breakwaters and the damage done by earthquakes.

BAEDEKER'S Egypt I. 2nd Ed. Li






