210 Route 1. ALEXANDRIA.



llere, between two causeways, each 20 ft. in width, he found a deep band
of soil. on which probably grow a row of trees; and this street was also
provided with a water--conduit. The Side-streets, which were 23 ft. in
width only, were generally about 300 yds apart.

tit the PRIKCIPAL BUILDINGS of ancient Alexandria the relics are now
so scanty that it is impossible to determine the character of the edifices
to which they belonged. (With regard to the so-called Cleopatra's Needle
and Pompey" s Pillar, see pp. 213, 2212,) The locality least free from doubt
is the site of the Paneum, which according to Strabo (ib., § 10) was'an
artificial circular mound, resembling a rocky hill, to which a winding
way ascends. From its summit one can survey the whole of the surrounding town in every direction'. This spot is doubtless identical with
the modern KGm cd-Dik, the highest ground in the town, 112 ft. in height,
where the reservoir of the waterworks (p. 216) is now situated.

The Gymnasium, according to Prof. Kiepert, who has minutely examined
the plans of Mabmfid-Bey, and not the Seine and Museum, occupied the
site of the old German consulate and its garden.'The most beautiful
building. however,' says Strabo (ib., §8), is the Gymnasium, with its
colonnadcs, which are more than a stadium in length. In the middle lie
the courts of justice and groves'.

The theatre, the Sema or Soma, and the Museum were situated
in the quarter of the Royal Palaces (p. 209), and occupied'a fourth or even a third part of the
whole extent of the city' 0b., § 8). This quarter must have lain to the
N. of the great street leading to the Canopic Gate, and to the S. of
Lochias, and must have adjoined the harbour and "all that lay beyond it'.
The Alexandrian Theatre lay opposite the island of Antirrhodus (p. 209),
in accordance with the custom that obtained at Greek seaports of placing
theatres where they could command a view of the sea. Speaking
of the Sema, Strabn (ib., e 8) describes it as'another part of the royal
buildings, an enclosed space, within which are the tombs of the kings
and that of Alexander. For Ptolemy Lagi had taken away the body of
the latter from Pcrdiccas, who had brought it from Babylon. Now
Ptolemy brought the body of Alexander to Alexandria and buried it where
it now lies, though not in the same coffin. The present coffin is of hyalus
(glass or alabaster), but the former was of gold, which was earried
air it Ptr0emy t t" surnanied Parisactus, son of Cocccs' (probably Ptolemy Xl. Alexander 1.) .--- A sarcophagus carried off by the French, and
afterwards captured by the English and deposited in the British Museum,
was once supposed to be that of Alexander, but, when the hieroglyphics
upon it were deciphered, they were found to have no reference to him.

The Museum, like the Sema, belonged to the quarter of the royal
palaces, and probably stood on the spot where some huge ruins, since
described by Brugsch, were discovered in 1853 when a Greek school was
being built. These ruins lay on the S. side of the Place Mébémct-Ali and
m the W. of Cleopatra's Needle, a site which would correspond with the
quarter of the palaces. The library undoubtedly was connected with the
Museum, and it is noteworthy that among these ruins a hollowed stone
was found bearing the inscription,'Dioskorides, 3 vols }, though it can
hardly have been used as a receptacle for scrolls. From these walls, now
buried beneath the earth, once flowed a copious stream of knowledge,
the benefits (If which continue to be traceable even at the present day.
According to mini tih, §8), the Museum contained'3 ball for walking,
another tor sitting. and a large building with the dining-room of the
scholars residing at the Museum. The society also possesses revenues in
common, and the Museum is presided over by a priest, formerly appointed
by the kings. but now by the cmperor'. This'ball for walking' was an
extensive court shaded with trees and provided with fountains and benches,
while the hall for sitting was used for purposes of business and study.
The latter was a covrred colunnnde, closed on one side, where the scholars
assunbbd, and where their pupils, thirsting for knowledge, listened to
it, im-t-q-Is ut' thr. I masters Like all the Egyptian dining-halls, that of
the linsruul probably had a flat roof, a polished pavement, and a balustrade



