QW,,, ,,,, Alexandria. ALEXANDRIA. J. Route. 2"

of short columns around it. The members of the Museum were arranged
at their repasts according to the schools to which they belonged (Aristotelians, Platonists, Stoics). Each department elected a president, and the body
of presidents formed a council, whose deliberations were presided over by
the'neutral' priest appointed bygovermueut. With the vast and artistically
embellished buildings ofthe Museum various othcrimportantestablishments
were connected, chief among which was doubtless the library, with copying
and binding rooms, where the manuscripts were reproduced, adapted for
use, and fitted with rollers and cases. Besides the revenues enjoyed by the
Museum in its corporate capacity, a yearly salary was paid to each member
from the time of Philadelphus downwards. Parthey estimates the members
in the time of the first Ptolemies at one hundred at least, but it was
probably much smaller at a later period. The Alexandrian School was
chiefly celebrated for its distinguished professors of the exact sciences,
including geography, astronomy. mathematics, mechanics, natural history,
medicine, and anatomy. Among its most celebrated scholars were Eratosthenes and Straho, the geographers; Hipparchus and Ptolemaeus, the
astronomers; Archimedes, the mechanician; Euclid, the founder of geometry; and Herophilus and Erasistratus, the anatomists. The branch of
learning most successfully cultivated by the members of the Museum,
however, was grammar, or philology, as it would now be called.'The
task of transmitting to posterity in a pure form the whole of the knowledge
and intellectual creations of an earlier period may perhaps be regarded
as the noblest aim of philology, and this task was most ably performed
by the philologists of Alexandria. It is to their critical labours that we
owe the preservation of the Greek literature, which has exercised so
great an influence on the culture of the West and on modern history generally". In these words l'arthey sums up the result of the labours of the
Alexandrite scholars, whose individual merits we cannot here discuss.
The chief Library at Alexandria, the nucleus of which consisted of
the library left by Aristotle, belonged to the Museum, having been founded
by Ptolemy Lagi with the assistance of Demetrius Phalercus. It was
arranged in the reign of Philadelphus, and rendered accessible by being
placed in the Museum. Zenodotus, Callimachus, and Eratosthenes were
the first librarians. Callimachus provided the scrolls with titles. As to
the number of volumes in the library our chief source of information is
a scholium 0n Plautus, with Ritschl's commentary. In the time of Ptolemy
Philadelphus the number was about 400,000, which, by deducting duplicates,
was reduced to 90,000. ln Caesar's time, when the library was burned,
the number had probably risen to about 000,000. The Pergameuiau
collection of books, which Antony presented to Cleopatra, contained 200,000
serous. These treasures, collected in one place and easily accessible,
enabled the members of the Museum to pursue the studies most congenial
to them. A second library was placed in the apartments of the Serapenm.
The site of the Serapeum, or great temple of Serapis, which Strabo
mentions very briefly, may be approximately determined by the fact that
it must have stood near Pompey's Pillar. The god to whom it was
dedicated was introduced by the Ptolemies, in order that both Greeks
and Egyptians might have a deity recognised by both, who might be
worshipped in common. Ptolemy Soter is said to have caused the image
of the god to be sent from Sinope on the Pontus, the inhabitants of which
were most unwilling to part with it. At length, after three years, the
colossus is said himself to have entered the vessel and by a miracle to
have arrived at Alexandria in three days. To the Greeks he was introduced
as Pluto, while the Egyptian priests called him osir -Api They both
regarded him as the god of the infernal regions, and as the Greeks
associated him with Pluto, the Egyptians connected him with Ptab. The
introduction of the new god was the more easily accomplished as it was
favoured by the priesthood of both nations, their well-intentioned object
being to attract worshippers of different races to the same shrine, and,
at one spot at least, to blend the religious sentiments of the Greeks and
Africans. After his arrival in Egypt Serapis was of course transformed
into an entirely new divinity, and his rites were remodelled so as to suit

1-1 i"



