212 Route I. ALEXANDRIA History.

the Greek, and more particularly the Egyptian, forms of worship. The
place where the Apis hull was chietly worshipped down to a very late
period is ascertained to have been Memphis (p. 372). The Temple of
Scrapis, when completed, is said to have been surpassed in grandeur by
no other building in the'world except the Roman Capitol. It lay to the
w. of Alexandria, in the suburb of Ithakotis, and not far from the
Necropolis, on an eminence ascended on one side by a carriage-road and
and on the other by a flight of steps, widening towards the top and leading
to a platform with a vaulted roof borne by four columns. Beyond this
were colonnades containing chambers set apart for the worship of the
god, and a number of lofty saloons which at the time of Philadelphus contained a library of 42,000 vols. This collection was afterwards much enlarged, and is said to have comprised 300,000 vols. at a later period. There were
also numerous subterranean chambers, used for various purposes, and a
number of dependencies, as at the Serapeum of Memphis (p. 383). The
interior of the colounades was enriched with extraordinary magnificence.
The walls were richly painted, and the ceilings and capitals of the columns gilded. Within the sanctuary stood the statue of the god, which
probably consisted of a wooden figure overlaid with various precious metals.
An opening ingeniously introduced in the sanctuary admitted rays of light
falling on the mouth of the idol,'as if kissing him'. Most of the extant
images of Serapis are of dark stone. That of Alexandria, which is sometimes said to have consisted of emerald, was probably coloured dark blue.
On its head was the calathos, and at its feet lay Cerberus, with the heads
of a wolf, a lion, and a dog, around which was entwined a serpent.
After Alexander's death, when his empire was divided among
his generals, Ptolemy, the son ofLagus (p. 96), came into possession
of Egypt, and Alexandria became his capital. The population of
the city increased greatly, and it attracted a large number of Jewish
settlers, to whom Ptolemy assigned a suburb on the coast, towards
the E. During his wise and upright reign Alexandria became a great
resort of artists and scholars, including Demetrius Phalereus, the
orator (p. 211), Apelles and Antiphilus, the painters, Euclid, the
mathematician, and Erasistratus and Herophilus, the physicians,
in whose society the king spent much of his time. A history of
Alexander the Great written by Ptolemy himself has unfortunately
been lost Under his successor, Ptolemy H. Philadelphus (p. 96),
the Museum (p. 210 ] attained its highest prosperity. Among its
distinguished members were Sosibius and Zoilus, the grammarians;
Strato, the natural philosopher; Timochares and Aristarchus, the
astronomers; Apollodorus, the physician; Hegesias, the philosopher;
Zonodotus, Theocritus, Gallimachus, and Philetas, the poets; and
the versatile Timon. it was about this period that the Old Testament
was translated from Hebrew into Greek, the new version being
called the Septuagint from the tradition that seventy translators
were engaged in the work. Under Ptolemy lII. Euergetes (p. 96),
Aristophanes of Byzantium, the grammarian and critic, became the
director of the Museum, while the mathematical school was superIntcndcd by Eratosthenes of Oyrene, the founder of the science of
mathematical geography. At this period Alexandria was also the
residence of the orator Lycon of Twas, ofthe poets Apollonius, the
lthodian, and LycoPhron, and of the great astronomer Cotton. Notwithstanding, the continual disscnsions among the Ptolemies with






