History. ALEXANDRIA. J. Route. 213

regard to the succession to the throne (p. 96), which seriously
disturbed the peace of the city, the fame of Alexandria, as the
greatest centre of commerce in the world and the chief seat of Creek
learning, steadily increased, and in 13.0. 48, when the Romans
interfered in the quarrels of Cleopatra VII. and her husband and
brother Ptolemy XIV, had reached its zenith. After the murder of
Pompey at Pelusium, Cesar entered Alexandria in triumph (p. 98),
but was attacked by the citizens and the army of Ptolemy XIV., and
had considerable difficulty in maintaining himselfin the Bruchium
p. 209). During the siege of the city occurred the irreparable
(calamity ofthe burning of the Great Library of the Museum, but it
was afterwards to some extent replaced by the Pergamenian collection, presented to Cleopatra by Antony. Caesar was afterwards
conquered by the charms of the Egyptian queen, but Antony fell
more fatally into her toils, and spent years of revelry with her at
Alexandria (camp. p. 98). Augustus treated Alexandria with clemency, and enlarged it by the addition of the suburb of Nicopolis
on the E. side of the city.

Under the successors of Augustus, Alexandria was almost uninterruptedly the scene of sanguinary civil dissensions, caused
chiefly by the Jews, who in the reign of Tiberius constituted onethird of the whole population. In A.D. 69 Vespasian was proclaimed
emperor by the Alexandrians, his election having been to a great
extent due to the influence of the philosophers Dian, Euphrates,
Apollonius of Tyana, and others then resident at the Museum.
Under the following emperors also the sciences continued to flourish
at Alexandria. In the reign ofHadrian, Valerius Pollio and his son
Diodorus, and Apollonius Dyscolus, the grammarians, Ptolemy
Chennus, the mythographer, Appian, the historian, and Claudius
Ptolemy, the astronomer, lived at Alexandria; and the emperor
himself, who visited the city twice, held public disputations with
the professors at the Museum. In AD. 176 Marcus Aurelius came
to Alexandria for the purpose of quelling an insurrection, but treated
the citizens with great leniency, and attended the lectures of the
grammariaus Athenzeus, Harpocration, Hephzestion, Julius Pollux,
and others. Lucian also lived at Alexandria at this period, in the
capacity of secretary to the prefect of Egypt. In the reign of Marcus
Aurelius the Temple of Serapis was burned down, but the library
escaped without injury, and the temple was soon rebuilt. In 190
Severus visited Alexandria, and established a senate and a new
municipal constitution. The visit of Caracalla, whom the citizens
had previously derided, was fraught with disaster. Having attracted
the whole of the male population capable of bearing arms to one
spot, he caused them to be massacred in cold blood. He closed the
theatres and the public 50110015, and to prevent future rebellions
be caused a wall fortified with towers to be erected between the
Bruchium and the rest of the city.



