v
4 MONEY

The current rate of exchange should always be ascertained from
a banker (pp. 206, 232; see also Table, p'T), and money should be
changed as rarely as possible at an ordinary money--changer's, at a
hotel, in the bazaars, or through a dragoman. For excursions in
the country the traveller should he provided with an ample supply
of small change (silver piastres, half-piastres, and copper coin), as
the villagers sometimes refuse to change money of any kind, and
the traveller may thus be very seriously inconvenienced. They also
frequently decline to take a coin if the inscription is worn away by
use, and in their examination of gold pieces they attach great importance to the ring of the metal. The traveller should also be on
his guard against counterfeit dollars and piastres. A favourite ornament with Oriental women consists of a string of gold coins worn
round the head, or as a necklace, and coins with holes in them are
accordingly often met with, but they are very apt to be rejected by
the natives. in changing money, therefore, all these points should
he attended to. It need hardly be observed that money should always be carefully kept under lock and key, and that it should be
shown as little as possible, in order that the cupinlity of the people
with whom the traveller has to do may not be amused.

Paper money is unknown in the East. liesides the Egyptian
coinage, which moreover has two different rates of I hangef,
Turkish, French, English, Italian, Austrian, and Russian gold and
silver coins are freely circulated

The unit of reckoning in the Egyptian currency is the Piastre,
which contains 40 Paras. In ordinary retail traffic accounts are
kept in current-pores, which are worth one-half of the government MrW-piastres. As, however, these do not, as might be supposed, indicate two different coins, this twofold mode of reckoning
is exceedingly puzzling to strangers. It should be particularly observed that at the shops and bazaars the prices are always fixed in
current piastres, so that half the number of silver coins only has to
he given. The shopkeepers, however, generally convert their prices
into francs for the benefit of strangers, and although their demands
are then somewhat raised, they are at least more intelligible. On
the other hand, in making small purchases, and in dealing with
country-people, it is more advantageous to keep to the reckoning
in current piastres, as the sellers are very apt to demand as many
francs as the amount of the price in piastres.



't Thvrr are indeed three rates of the price in piastres.

, Tht. Ct', and
: In- huh'l' nly higher Ill! tln. river. No advantage, however, can he derived
t'rorn this diITt-rrnrt- in value except when very large payments are made
in copper, as is the custom with the peasantry. As all the taxes are








