2111mm. sumxamuua. History.

The first great persecution of the Christians, which took place
in the reign ofDeeims (250), was a terrible blow to the Alexandrians.
The city had for a considerable time been the seat of a bishop, and
had since 190 possessed a theological school, presided over by
l'anta-nus and at the beginning of the 3rd cent. by Clement of
Alexandria, who endeavoured to combine Christianity with the
Neo-Plat0nisuo which sprang up about this period at Alexandria
and was taught by Ammonius Sauces, Herennius, Plotinus, Porphyrins, Jamblichus, and others. A second persecution took place
in 257, during the reign of Valerian; and shortly afterwards, in the
reign of Gallienus, the plague carried off a large portion of the
population. The incessant revolts which broke out in Alexandria
and other parts oflflgypt led repeatedly to the elevation of usurpers
and rival emperors to the throne. Thus, Firmns was proclaimed
emperor at Alexandria as a rival ofAurelian, and Probus owed the
purple mainly to the Egyptian legions. The Alexandrians afterwards revolted against Diocletian and declared themselves in favour
of Achilleus; but Diocletian besieged the city, took it by storm,
and chastised the inhabitants with great severity.

Christianity, however, still continued to gain ground, and Alexandria was even regarded as the chief seat of Christian erudition
and of the orthodox faith. The dogmatic dissensions between Arius,
who filled the office of presbyter, and Athanasius, who afterwards
became a bishop, at length broke out, and were fraught with disastrous consequences. Alexandria was also soon obliged to yield to
Constantinople its proud position as the centre of Greek thought
and science. The sanguinary quarrels between the Athanasian
party and the Arians under their unworthy bishop Georgius further
contributed to the rapid decline of the city. On the accession of
Julian to the purple the pagans of Alexandria again instituted a
persecution of the Christians, and Georgius became one of their
victims. In the reign of Theodosius, however, paganism received its
deathblow, and Theophilus, the patriarch of Alexandria, displayed
the utmost zeal in destroying the heathen temples and monuments.
The famous statue of Serapis was broken in pieces and burned in
the amphitheatre amidst shouts of derision from a Christian crowd.
The material prosperity of the city also fell off so greatly, that the
municipality was no longer able to defray the cast of cleansing the
Nile and keeping the canals open. After the death of Theophilus
(in 113) the revenues of Alexandria were still farther diminished by
the proceedings of the new patriarch Cyril, who led the armed mob
against the synagogues and expelled the Jews from the city; and
in 7115 the learned and beautiful heathen llypatia, daughter of the
mathematician'l'ln-on, was cruelly murdered by an infuriated crowd.

The reigns of Marcia", Leo L, and Justinian were also signalised
by new revolts, chiefly occasioned by religious dissensions. Under
Justinian all the still existing heathen schools were finally closed,



