"History. ALEXANDRIA. J. Route. 215

and the few scholars of any eminence who had remained till then
were obliged to leave the place. A new insurrection which broke
out in the reign of Phocas was attended with greater success than
previous revolts, for Heraclius, whom the Alexandrians now proclaimed emperor, contrived in 610 to maintain his possession of
the purple. The sway of the Eastern emperors in Egypt, however,
soon came to an end. In 619 Alexandria was captured by Chosroes,
King of Persia, but the Christians were left unmolested. Ten years
later Ileraclius succeeded in recovering possession of Egypt, but
the troops of the Khalif'Omar soon afterwards invaded the country
and took Alexandria after a prolonged siege. In December, (MI,
Amr Ibu el-UP, rOmar's general, entered the city; but by order
of his master, he treated the inhabitants with moderation. The
decline of Alexandria now became still more marked, and about
this period'Amr founded Fostat (p. 241), as a new capital and seat
of government, free from Christian influences. The new town,
which gradually developed itself into the modern Cairo, soon
became an important and prosperous place at the expense of the
famous ancient Greek city. During the middle ages Alexandria
sank into insignificance. Its commerce received a deathblow by
the discovery of the sea-route to India round the Cape of Good
Hope, and the discovery ofAmerica entailed new losses. After the
conquest of Egypt by the Turks 6111517) the city languished under
the infamous regime of the Mamelukes, the harbours became choked
with sand, the population, which had once numbered half a million
souls, dwindled down to 5000, and the environs were converted
into a sterile and marshy wilderness. With regard to the history of
the French invasion, see p. 105.

The decay of the once powerful seaport was at length effectually
arrested by the vigorous hand of Mohammed'Ali, who improved
the harbours and constructed several canals. The chief benefit he
conferred on Alexandria was the construction of the lllallmddiych
Canal, which was so named after the reigning Sultan Mahmud.
By means of this channel fresh water was conducted to the town
from the Rosetta branch of the Nile, the adjoining fields were irrigated anew, and Alexandria was again connected with the Nile and
the rest of Egypt, the products of which had long found their only
outlets through the Rosetta and Damietta mouths of the river. The
enterprising pasha began the work in 1819, employing no fewer
than 250,000 labourers, and completed it at a cost of 71/2 million
francs. He also improved the whole canal-system of the Delta, the
works being chiefly superintended by the aged and eminent Linant
de Belleville-Pasha, general director of public works, and other
French engineers. The subsequent viceroys have also made great
efforts to improve the prospects of the town; and the Egyptian
cotton--trade, which received a strong impulse from the American
war. and found its chief outlet through Alexandria, has proved a






