2 I 6 Route 1. AeraxmuA. Popuhotlth..

source of great profit to the citizens. Several regular steamboat
. ("s and two telegraphic cables now connect Alexandria with
: npc, while it communicates with the rest of Egypt by river,
railway, and telegraph. The town suffered severely during Arabi's
rising in 1882, and a great part of the European quarter was laid
in ashes by the fanatical natives. Owing to the continued state of
political uncertainty and the delay of the Egyptian government to
pay an indemnity, little has been done to repair the mischief, and
the spirit of enterprise seems for the time being completely lamed.

Gas AND \VATER. The city was provided with gas in 1805, and is also
now well supplied with water. The old cisterns, the number of which
is said still to exceed a thousand, and the situation of which enables us
to determine the direction of the ancient streets, have been superseded
by the modern waterworks, completed in 1860, which are supplied by the
Nol1arrem-Bey Canal, a branch of the llahmfidiych Canal. The reservoir,
into which the water is pumped by steam, after having been filtered,
is situated on the top of the Kihn ed-Dik hill. the site of the Paneum
of antiquity (p. 210). and is capable of containing 10,000 cubic metres of
water (about 360,000 cubic feet). The water-rate per cubic metre [ 36
cubic feet) is now lfr. only, while for the same quantity the old watercarriers used to receive er. fie.

llAPBOURS (comp. pp. 203, 208). The maritime traffic of Alexandria
is Of or Alexandria
is of c:, siderable importance, although it is said to have decreased since
the opening of the Suez Canal. The port is entered annually by about
2000 vessels. In um, which was commercially a somewhat dull year,
the value of the imports was 7,500.0001.., of the exports 12,150,0001., the
former paying 1353,0001. and the latter 520,0001. of duty. The most important export is cotton, of which 21/2-23/4 million cwt. are annually dispatched. Next in order are cotton-seed, grain, leguminous seeds, sugar,
and onions; and lastly we may mention the not unimportant items of
elephants' tusks, ostrich feathers, and mother-of-pearl. England possesses
the lion's share of the trade and shipping, next in order coming France,
Germany, and Austria.

Alexandria now contains a population of upwards of 200,000
souls, including at least 50,000 Europeans. In its palmy days it
is said to have numbered more than half-a-million inhabitants,
consisting of Egyptians, Greeks, Jews, Pharnieians, and Italians,
all of whom were animated in common with the spirit of enterprise
which attracted them to the recently founded city. The Greek element predominated at that period, next in importance to which
was the Egyptian, while a numerous, but exclusive. Jewish community was settled here as early as the 11th cent. BA). According
to tradition the Gospel was first preached to the Alexandrians by
St. Mark, and it is an historical fact that the Christian conununity
was already numerous in the time of Hadrian (2nd cent). In a
letter to Servianus the emperor himself gives a very unfavourable,
but hardly accurate account of the Christians.

'Egypt, my dear Serv urus', writes Hadrian,'which you extolled to
me, I have found to be inhabited by a very frivolous and vacilloting
people. who are easily swayed by every passing rumour. Those who
warship Sl'rupis "the Christians, and men who call themselves bishops
of Christ are nevertheless devoted to Serapis. There is not a single Samarium, not a single
(linstmn pruliyter that is not at the same time an astrologer, an interpreter of signs, and a quack. The patriarch himself, whenever he comes



