W ALEXANDRIA. J. Route. 217

t, is compelled by one party to worship an m, and by another
to worship Christ. They are a refractory. gOnd-fur-nothing, and slanderous set of people. - The city (Alexandria) possesses treasures and
resources in abundance. No one's hands here are idle. At one place
glass is manufactured, at another paper, and at another linen. All these
busy people seem to carry on some kind of handicraft. Men with gouty
feet, blind persons, and even those with gouty hands, all find some occupation. They all really recognise one god only (probably Mammon),
the same who is worshipped by Christians, Jews, and all nations. It
is a pity that the people are of so had a disposition, as the importance of
the city, even in point of size, makes it well worthy of being the capital of the whole of Egypt. I made every possible concession to the city,
restored its ancient privileges, and added so many new ones that the
citizens came and thanked me in person; and yet as soon as I had left
the place they calumniated my son Verus.'

As at that period, so at the present day, the population ofAlexandria consists of members of every nation dwelling on the banks
of the Mediterranean. The language most generally understood is
Italian, which the Arabs, as well as other nations, learn readily.

Sights. Unless the traveller proposes to make archaeological
researches and to study the ancient topography of Alexandria, he
will easily become acquainted with its principal points of interest
in a single day (comp. p. 3206:). Cairo "ords a far better insight
into Oriental life than its half-European seaport, while its delightful winter climate, notwithstanding the proximity of the two cities,
is far superior to that of Alexandria. In summer the reverse is the
case, as the heat at Alexandria is then tempered with cool seahreezes, but even as early as April, especially when the S. or S E.
wind prevails, the atmosphere there also is often hot and dusty.
The European should avoid any undue exertion, which may easily
be followed by very prejudicial effects

The new-comer will nevertheless find it interesting to walk
through the town, and particularly to observe the busy streets with
their Oriental and European throng; and he will encounter, chiefly
beyond the precincts of the Frank quarter, a number of isolated
relics of antiquity, in the shape of stumps of columns, blocks of
stone, and heaps of broken pottery. It is not an easy matter to give
the traveller distinct directions as to his route through the city, as
only the principal streets have well-recognised names. Most of the
new names given them by government are unfamiliar to Europeans
and Arabs alike, and have practically superseded the older names
in a few cases only. Some of the streets again are differently named
by Europeans of different nationalities. If the traveller loses his
way he will soon meet with a donkey-boy who will take him back
to his hotel (oomph p. 205). On the W. side of the city, and on
the neck of land between the two hath' _ the ancient Heptastadium, to the h. of the Place lléhémot-Ali, the inhabitants are
chiefly of Arabian extraction (p. 20 (0, while the quarter which was
once the island of Pharos, farther to the N., is occupied by the
Turks. The streets here are somewhat broader than in the other
quarters, and the houses are sometimes handsomely built and pro















