218 Route 1. ALEXANDRIA. Pompey's Column.

vided with gardens. Pompey's Column is easily found and forms
a convenient landmark.

The great centre of European life is the Place Méhémet Ali
(formerly Place des Consuls ], which is embellished with plantations
of trees and two fountains. It was the principal scene of destruction in 1882. in the centre rises the Equestrian Statue ofMahummed
'Ali CPI. 35), the founder of the reigning dynasty of Egypt, designed
by Jaquemanl, and east in Paris. The statue is 16 ft. in height, and
stands on a pedestal of Tuscan marble 20 ft. in height. As the
Mohammedan religion forbids the pictorial or plastic representation
of the human form, the erection of this monument was long opposed by the "Ulama, or chief professors of'divine and legal learning'. On the N.E. side stands the English Church (111.25), adjoined
by St. Mark's Building and the International Tribunal (PI. 50),
the only buildings which escaped the fury of the natives in 1882.
The wooden booths and sheds which were erected after this period
of devastation have now been removed, and their place has been
taken by temporary shops and warehouses of a more substantial
character.

From the SE. corner of the square we reach the triangular
Place de l'Eglite. or Square Ibrahim, the former name being derived
from the Roman Catholic church of St. Catharine JI. 30 ] situated
here. The line de la Colonne Pompée leads hence to the S. to the
Forte dc la Colonne Pompe'e, or Perle "Nil. Outside this gate we
pass a large Arabian cemetery, lying on the right, and soon reach
an eminence covered with rubbish and fragments of ruins, on which
rises'E'Pompey's Column LPI. 37; 12,6) The monument is composed
of red granite from Assuén, which has withstood centuries of exposure to the elements; and it is now the only important relic
of antiquity in the city The pedestal, composed of several
blocks which once belonged to other buildings, was formerly covered
by the earth and is much damaged. The height of the column,
together with the disintegrated, or perhaps never quite completed,
Corinthian capital, and the pedestal, is 104 ft.; the shaft is (37 ft.
high, and is about o ft. in diameter below, and not quite 8 ft. at the
top. The proportions produce an exceedingly harmonious effect.
This handsome monument does not derive its name from Pompey
the Great, who was murdered on the Egyptian coast (p. 97) after the
Battle of Plum t, but from the Roman prefect Pumpeius, who, according to the inscription. erected it in honour of the unconquered Diocletian,
tht'_" 1lt'fcn (lur of the city of Alexandria'i There is no ground for supposing that this column once bore the brazen horse which the citizens
are said to have erected on a token of gratitude to Diocletian. After
that emperor had besieged Alexandria for eight months, nml hurl
tleslrnyml the waterworks, he at length took the city, and slew the
urnrlur \uhnh-ue ortling tn t ] upnlar story, he then commanded
his suldmry tn massacre the seditious populace until their blood should





' 1: Tim (delimiter-cola adroxpéropa, rd"; nohouxov,'h1siavirpeltr; Autxhltmybv
rev alenrov Momma )" cinema: Anytime uav suaptén'vh






