ALEXANDRIA. 1. Route. 219

reach his horse's knees. His horse soon afterwards stumbled over a
dead body and wetted its knee in human blood, whereupon the emperor
was pleased to regard this as a sign that the unhappy citizens had been
sufficiently chastised. Out of gratitude, particularly to the horse, they
are said to have erected the brazen horse which was known as that of
Diocletian. That the horse did not, however, occupy the summit of the
column is proved by an ancient illustrated plan of Alexandria, in which
Pompey's Pillar is represented with the figure of a man on the top. The
inscription, moreover, indicates that the column was erected by Pompeius 11., whose prefecture did not begin till A.D. 309, whereas the defeat
and death of Achilleus took place about 296. The column has, therefore,
no connection with the story of the brazen horse, but was probably
erected chiefly in commemoration of a gift of corn presented by Diocletian
to the citizens during a period of scarcity.

hear the extensive cemetery at the foot of the column are several fragments of columns which probably belonged to the Serapeum
o. 211 ]. If we are to believe the accounts of Makrizi and'Abdellatif, this temple was encircled by a colonnade of 400 columns,
and once contained the library which was burned by rOmar.

Following the road a little farther, and diverging to the right
near a manufactory, we shirt the S. slope of a low plateau and soon

reach the Catacombs (Pl. D, 7), about 1/2 M. from Alexandria.
From this point to the vicinity of the Serapeum (see above) the sloping, rocky ground was honeycombed by a great number of subterranean
passages and tomb-chambers, but as there is now a quarry here, all traces
of the ancient constructions will soon be obliterated. Several ornamented
sarcophagi are still seen lying about. The workmen offer coins, chiefly
of the time of Constantine, for sale, and it is from that period that the
construction of the catacombs probably dates. One only of the tomb-chambers, which was discovered in 1858, is tolerably preserved, and it is now
exposed to view owing to the fall of the stories above it. "'e enter by
a wooden gate, generally open, and descend by an ancient flight of steps
on the w, side to a group of three chambers. On the left t side) we
observe an apse with traces of paintings and Greek inscriptions (Christ
between Peter and Andrew in the middle; on each side a love-feast). r
The vault opposite the entrance, with remains of tasteful decoration in
stucco, contains three recesses, the paintings in which represent (W.
side) the Maries at the Sepulchre; (N. side) Christ, like the Egyptian
god news, treading on serpents, with a quotation from P5. sei. 1.; and
(B. side) the Ascension. On each side of the central recess is a large
Greek cross with the inscription at the four comers IC' NO Ill [ Jesus
Christ conquers). These very rude frescoes probably date from about
the 6th cent., being doubtless a second restoration of the original, as we
still find three layers of plaster, one above the other, and each bearing
traces of painting. The third vault, a long chamber on the B side, contains sixteen recesses, which were once closed by means of upright slabs
of stone. A flight of steps descending hence to the s., the outlet of
which is now built up, led to a lower series of tombs. q
We now return to the Pane de la Colonne Pompée (PL 38),
and follow the Rue de la Colonne back to the (1/4 hr.) Place Me'he'met-Ali (p. 218' ]. from the N.W. corner of which diverges
the Rue Ros ct-Tin. the longest street in Alexandria. This
street describes a wide curve through the Arabian quarter situated
on the ancient Heptastadium (p. 217), traverses the Turkish
quarter on what was formerly the island of Pharos (p. 217), some of
the houses in which present a very handsome appearance, and leads

to the Viceroyal Palace on the Bis et-Tin [ P ]. 43 ], or'promontory






