'_"
220 Route 1. ALEXANDRIA. (ms ei-Tin.

of figs.' This walk afl'ords a good view of the street-traffic of the
city, but the palace itself, which was built by Mohammed rAli and
restored by Isma% Pasha, is uninteresting, especially as the DN in,
or Council Chambers, were destroyed by a fire in 1870. The balcony,
however, commands a fine view of the extensive harbour. (Admission by ticket procured at the Consulate; but the hotel commissionnaires sometimes obtain access by payment of a bakshish.)
The Harem. a separate building, facing the sea, is built on the
model of the seraglio at Constantinople. A visit to the neighbouring Lighthouse is very interesting, especially in the early morning,
but admission is granted only to those provided with an order from
the governor, which may he obtained through the English or American consulate. The Arsenal (Pl. 1) is not worth visiting.

A drive (3 M.; road very dusty; carriage in the afternoon
10 fr.. or after 5 p.111. 5-7 fr., fee l fr.) should also be taken to
the Ginincl creNtaha, or public garden (usually called the Jardin
Pusiréj. Turning to the right outside the Porte de Rosette (PI, 40),
leaving the European cemeteries to the left, and avoiding the
road which leads in a straight direction to Ramleh, we pass the
waterworks on the left, cross a small mound of ancient rubbish,
and reach the JUtrlyniidtyeh Canal (p. 215 ]. We then turn to the
left, drive for a short time along the canal, and soon reach the
entrance to the gardens, where a band plays on Fridays and Sundays from 4 to G pure. Europeans will be interested by the profusion of exotic plants which thrive here in the open air. A little
higher up is a fine garden belonging to M. Antoniadis, a rich Greek
merchant, who has liberally thrown it open to the public. On the
days on which the band plays this part of the canal is the resort of
the fashionable world of Alexandria.

letracing our steps, and following the bank of the canal. which
lies on the left, we observe on the right a long succession of villas
and gardens, including the viceroyal chateau Nirnreh Tettiteh
('Number Three"). with its handsome entrance, and the chateau
and garden of Jfolmrrem-ney. We may now re-enter the city by
the Porte Moharrem-Bey, or by the Porte de la Colonne Pompée.

Adjoining the W. side of the city is the site of the original
Macedonian Necropolis, a reminiscence of which is preserved in the
Ambit: name Gabari [ see below). No traces of the cemetery now
remain, the ground being occupied by a dirty suburb intersected
by very bad roads. About 41/2 N. farther W. are the Quarries of
Males (see below), which are hardly worthy of a visit (carriage
there and back in 2-3 hrs., 10-12 fro.

Starting from the Place Méhémet-hli, we follow the new flue
JbrO? m (1'1. E, P, { i, 5), which has been constructed straight
through an old Arabian quarter, and at the end of it cross the
Mahmfidiyeh Canal. We then turn to the left, crossing the rails
which lead to the extensive new quay, and immediately after





