' ALEXANDRIA. 1. Route. 221

wards proceed to the right by the Route (lu Melts (Pl. A, B, (O,
which skirts the coast. A little to the left of the road is the new
Hippodrome, the race--course of Alexandria, sometimes known as
the Gabari (see above). To the W. of it is an old palace with a
mosque, recently converted into a Quarantine (Pl. 4'2.) or lazzaretto.
In the friable limestone of the coast-hills are a number of tombchambcrs, the ceilings of which are borne by pillars of the rock
left for the purpose; but most of them have been destroyed by the
inroads of the sea, and are now covered up. These chambers, which
contain nothing interesting, have been styled the Baths of Cleopatra. Farther on, to the left of the road, is the chateau of Sa'id
Pasha (p. 203), and to the right, close to the sea, is the Bab el'Arab (p. 203).

At Meks were established the works of Messrs Greenfieldé'z Co.,
an English firm which contracted for the construction of the imposing new Harbour Works of Alexandria. These consist, in the
first place, of an outer breakwater, beginning near the W. and of
the island of Pharos [ Res et-Tin, p. 219 ], and extending to the
S.W. towards Melts, forming an obtuse angle, and nearly 2 M. in
length. This huge barrier, completed in Dee. 1873, is formed of
a foundation of 26,000 solid masses of masonry, each 20 tons in
weight, faced on the side next the sea with natural blocks, each
15-25 cwt. in weight. The horizontal surface is 19ft. in width.
and, at low tide, to ft. above the level of the water. The admirably
sheltered harbour thus formed is nearly 1800 acres in area, and
20-60 ft. in depth. A second pier, or Mole, nearly 1000 yds. in
length, and connected by lines of rails with the old railwaystation, protects the inner harbour, which is about 1175 acres in
area and on an average 27 it. deep. From the beginning of this
pier (near Gabari, at the S.\\'. extremity of the town) a series of
new quays extends along the whole E. side of the old harbour to
the Arsenal, whereby about 75 acres of very valuable land have
been reclaimed. The whole length of the berthage thus obtained
for large vessels, including the inside of the 31010, extends to nearly
2 M. No fewer than 30, 000 artificial blocks, weighing 20 tons
each, and 2 million tons of natural blocks of stone, manufactured
and quarried respectively at Meks, were used in the construction
of the harbour-works.

To the E. of Meks, and to the S. of the road, lies the extensive
Lake Mareotis (p. 223j.



Ramleh (61/2 M.; see below) is connected with Alexandria by
two railways; the direct line, on which a train runs hourly to
Ramleh in 20 min [ fares 4 pins. 20, 3pias. 20 paras, Zpias tariff);
and the Rosetta railway (station outside the Porte Moharrem- Bey),
which runs two trains daily to ltamleh in 37 min. (same fares).
There is also a new carriage-road (carriage about 10 in), which






