- 223

2. From Alexandria to Cairo.

128 M. RAIEWAY. Express train in 41/3 hrs., fares 301/2 fr. (117 piastres), 20% fr. (( 8 piastres); return-tickets, available till the first train on
theseeend dav mu; 175 Qiastres 20 paras or 117 piastres tariff. Ordinary
trains 1n 51/2-6 hrs., fares SH, 65, 39 piastres. Each first-class passenger has
35 kilogrammes of luggage free, second 20. third 17 tor about 77, 57, and
37 lbs. respectively). The first and second class carriages resemble those
in France and Italy; the third are often excessively dirty. Five trains
daily each way, starting at the same hours: express at 6 p.m., ordinary at
s (from JAY? "8.30) am, 10 a.m., 2.45 p.111., and 10.30 p.111. - From stat.
Benha via Zahdzih direct to Suez at 1 p.m., reaching 2 m; nt2 pin. and
sues at 6.30 p.111. (fare; from Alexandria to Suez 169 and 113 piastres
tanm. At Kafr ez-Zaiyat (p. 225) there is a European restaurant. The
only refreshments obtainable at the other stations are boiled eggs (bed),
Arabian bread ('esh), water (muyeh), and oranges (bortulrL0 and sugarcane (hasab) in their seasons (1/272 copper piastres).

The railway-station (PI. 2; u, 5) is not far from the hotels. but the
traveller had better drive to it, starting from his hotel at least half-anhonr before the advertised time of departure, Newcomers and travellers
burdened with much luggage should engage the cnmmissionnaire of the
hotel or a valet-de-place (25.) to assist in booking their luggage, an
operation carried on by the employee with those alternations of apathetic
indolence and violent hurry which are so characteristic of Orientals.
The Alexandria and Cairo line, the first railway constructed in the East,
was made under Sa'id Pasha in 1%.") and was to have been continued by
another line from Cairo across the desert to Suez, but the latter project
has been abandoned. The names of the stations are not called out.
The Arabian villages (temp. p. 30) seen from the line present a very
curious appearance, and the interior of their half-open mud-hovels is
frequently visible.' The dust is very annoying in hot weather, forcing
its way into the carriages even when the windows are closed.

The train first traverses gardens towards the N.E., and beyond
Sidi Gabe? diverges to the right from the line to Rosetta o. 447).
To the left is the ruin of the Kasr el-liayisereh (p. 222), situated
on the coast, with the chateau of Ramleh (p. 222) in the distance,
It then crosses the Mahmfidiyeh Canal (p. 448) and skirts its S.
bank nearly as far as stat. Darnanlnlr (see below). To the left lies
the Luke ofAbuYr (Belzeret Malultyeh); to the right is Lake Murcott's
(Behérel Maryt'tt), the water of which washes the railway embankment at places during the period of the inundation, while in summer it is a considerable distance from it.

The Lake Mareotis, or Mama, as it was also called in ancient times,
hounds Alexandria on the S. side. In Strabo's time it was filled from the
Nile by means of numerous canals, both from the S. and E which
brought great traffic to this inland harbour, while the sea-harbour was
more important for the export trade. The lake, which lies 8 ft. below
the sea-level, was o ice surrounded by a luxuriantly fertile tract of country,
irrigated from the rifle as early as the time of Herodotus. The banks once
yielded excellent white wine, which has been extolled by Horace and
Virgil, and is mentioned by Athenaeus as having been particularly
wholesome Egypt now produces very little wine, but reminiscences
of its culture in, the region of Lake Mar-eotis are still preserved in
the name Karm (1'. e.'vineyard', p1. kurfim), which the Arabs apply to
some ancient ruins here, and in numerous wine-presses hewn in the
rocks which still exist. 3raltusiid-Bey and Professor Kiepert divide this
coast region into four parallel zones: (1) The chain of sand-hills en the
coast, where many old ruins are still observable; 1'2) The depression of
the Waidi Maryil.t, a western prolongation of the lake, the water of which








