From
covers the eastern and lower half of that valley, while the western half
consists of marshy ground with several islands, hearing ruins of ancient
buildings; (3) The chain of hills to the S. of the lake, about 5 SI, in
width. and consisting of fertile land, with the ruins of about forty ancient villages; m The Mareotic plain, stretching bt the margin of the
desert. and also containing many ruins.

During the Amman and Turkish regime the waters of the lake
gradually subsided, but in 1901, during the siege of Alexandria, the
English cut through the neck of land between the lake and the sea near
the so-called Naison Carrée, a little to the \V. of Ahukir, thus laying an
extensive and fertile region under water and destroying about 150 villages. The present E Sett marks the spot where the fatal cutting was
made and afterwards closed. Muhammed mi did all in his power to
repair the damage and to improve the environs of Alexandria, but about
00,000 acres of cultivable land are said still to he covered by the Seawater. The water is now evaporated for the sake of its salt, the right
to manufacture which is farmed out by government for 4000 purses
(nearly mum.) per annum.

We observe at intervals the sails of the barges on the Mahmfidiyeh Canal, and long strings of laden camels traversing the
embankments. 17 M. Kufr ed-Ide'r was the point at which
Arabi erected his strongest fortifications in 1882, after the English
had occupied Alexandria and liamleh. We now perceive the first
cotton--fields on the right. - 28 M. Abu Homg. a group of mudhovels.

381/2 M. Damanhiir Ciirst station at which the express stops,
reached in 11/4 lit), the capital of the yrovincqof Bererelv, with
r25,000 inhah., was the ancient Egyptian Tema-tm-Hor (city of
Horns), and the Roman llermopotis Portal. The town lies on an
eminence, and contains sometolerablysubstantialbuildings. Among
them are several manuraetories for the separation of the cotton
from the seeds, and above them tower several minarets. The
Arabian cemetery lies close to the railway. In July, 1798, llonaparte, on his expedition to Cairo, selected the route vii Hamanhtor,
which at the time was so excessively parched and burned up that
his officers and men suffered terribly, while he himself narrowly
escaped being taken prisoner. On letJnly, however. he succeeded
in defeating the troops of the Mamelukes at the' tattle of the Pyramids', and on the 20th he entered Cairo. In Now, 1802, the
Mamelnkes here inflicted a signal defeat on the Turks. A large
market is held at llamanhfir on Sundays, and a smaller one on
Fridays. (From Dainanhfir to an el-Bahr and Rosetta, see p. 4118.)

5:) M. Tell el-lhtriid, a village with a large mound of ruins.

FHoM TELL rah-133nm) Tl) Biking i-zn-lMirkfin (p. 23!) a direct railway
chine-cling our line with the Upper Egyptian Railway, was opened in
H a The traveller hound fur Cairn, however, will not care to take
this route except in case of necessity. The train leaves Alexandria at

m., reaches 155 hi.) Tell IA 1rrid ht 1,20 a.m, ,tha1t of 110 min),
_ es m (1:10 )" 1m! ed-l knii- at 7.5 a.m.; it starts again m.
um. m. - In the reverse: to lifilfik 9711iast.'10 par, (35 piasl.; to mu;








