226 Route 2. TAN \. From A

at Tania after a pilgrimage to Mecca. He is credited with the possession
of great personal strength, and is therefore invoked in times of danger
or exertion, and lty women also who desire the blessing of children.

Travellers may generally visit the mosque without an attendant, but
must not omit to deposit their shoes at the door. During the fair, however,
which attracts among other visitors a number of fanatical Mohammedaus
from countries rarely visited by Europeans, it is advisable to procure the
escort of the sham. of the mosque, to whom an introduction may he
obtained through the consular agent (fee 1-2 (L).

The catafalque of the saint is covered with red velvet richly
adorned with embroidery, and is enclosed by a handsome bronze
railing. The dome is still unfinished. One large and two small
schools are connected with the mosque. The sebil, or tank, with
the small medreseh (school) above it, situated in the space adjoin:
ing the mosque, is an interesting old building

The most important of the three annual Fams or TANTA is that
of the'mdlid' (nativity) of the saint in August. The other two fairs
are in January and April. Each fair lasts from one Friday to the
following, presenting an interesting and picturesque scene, but the
often marred by the lieentionsness so prevalent among Orientals. In
August upwards of half-a-million persons congregate here from all the
Eastern countries bordering on the Mediterranean, and from the Muhammedan part of Africa. The Egyptian peasantry, who purchase cattle,
implements, clothing, and trinkets at the fair, are always largely represented, and a number of European merchants are also to he met with. The
number of visitors to the April fair is said to average 200,000. and to the
January fair 50,000 Upwards of a million head of cattle are sold.
annually at these fairs. Beggars and pilgrims farther contribute to swell
these vast crowds. and the merchants themselves usually combine a pious
visit to the shrine of the saint with their commercial business; for the
Prophet permits even the Mecca pilgrims to engage in trade, although he
has imposed on them many unpleasant restrictions. In August and April
we also encounter here the greater number of the Ghawiizi and rAwiilim
(comp. p. 20), of the singing and dancing and unveiled women, and of
the jugglers and showmen of every kind who dwell on the banks of the
Nile. The fair of Tenth may indeed almost be regarded as a modern
reflex of the pilgrimage to Buhastis (p. 1111) described by Herodotus.
Women uttering the peculiar crowing sound which they use to express
great emotion still approach the sacred shrine in boats as in the time of
Herodotus, and license is everywhere prevalent. Lung processions of
camels laden with chests and bales are seen converging towards the town,
accompanied by crowds of men and large herds of cattle. The banks of
the canal are thronged with persons washing themselves and drawing
water. The streets teem with the most animated traffic, and are filled
with long rows of boats, in many of which the occupants are seen plying
their handicrafts. Dervishes with dishevelled hair and ragged clothes,
cripples, and idiots, who are treated with great respect. are clamorous
for bahstiish; and pilgrims returning from Mecca are saluted with flags
and symbols at the gate of the mosque. () n the first Friday of each fair
the vast concourse of visitors, headed by the chief authorities of the
town, move in procession towards the mosque of the sainted Seyyid. In
the large space set apart for shows, adjoining the horse-market, the
jcrtcrs usually attract a numerous audience. When they pronounce the
name of Allah the whole of the assemblage seated around how their
heads with one accord. The gestures of terror and astonishment made
by the children and ncgrocs at the performances of the jugglers are very
amusing. Among the most popular exhibitions are those of the obscene
liaragyfiz, and the dances performed by men in female dress (cum .p. 211.

1" rum Tania tn iimztultet Imp, lllmzsdm, and JJamz'elta, sec pp. "5, wo.

A short branch-line runs from Tenth to the s, a






