to P BENIIA. 2. Route. 227

small town on this side of the Rosette branch of the Nile, in the Menafiyeh, one of the most fertile regions in the Delta.

Beyond Tanta the train traverses a fertile tract, and beyond
(8731.) Birket es--Sab'a crosses a small arm of the Nile. A number
of cotton-cleaning mills afford an indication of the wealth of the
country. A little farther on, near Benin, on the Damietta arm of
the Nile, is a large viceroyal palace, where'Abbis Pasha (p. 107 ],
Sail Pasha's predecessor, was murdered in 18:34. The train crosses the Damietta branch of the Nile by an iron bridge, and, immediately beyond it, reaches
101 M. Benha (reached from Alexandria in 31/2 hrs., from
Cairo in 3/4111; railway to Zalsiizili, .lsma'iltya, and Suez, see
p. 407), or Benha l-'Asal, i.e.'Benha of the honey", so called from
a jar of honey which Makaukas, the Copt (p. 374), is said to have
sent from this place to the Prophet. The red oranges and the
'Ydsuf Efendi' mandarins of Benha are much esteemed at Cairo,
and excellent grapes are also produced here.

To the N.E. of Benha, not far from the town, and intersected by the
railway, are the ruins of the ancient Athribis, the'heart- ty' of antiquity, situated in the 10th Nomos of Lower Egypt, and named Km etAh-ib hy the natives of the village of Atr'ib "E21 The site of the ancient town is still traceable, but the remains hardly repay a visit, and no
inscriptions are now left; The heaps of rubbish begin near the Rosetta
branch of the river and end by a small canal. A lion bearing the name
of Ramses H., found here and carried to Europe, and the fact that the
town and the deities belonging to it are mentioned in a few hieroglyphic
inscriptions, indicate that it was founded in the time of the Pharaohs.
A Roman-Egyptian necropolis was at a later period founded at the end
of the long street on the remains of ancient buildings. Brugsch, who visited the place in 1851, describes it thus: -'The dead lay in their chains
in tomb-chambers which were situated immediately below the surface
of the mound of rubbish and were constructed of black Nile-bricks dried
in the sun. The chambers were vaulted and lay adjacent to each other.
I sought in vain for inscriptions and paintings, but one of the chambers
was coloured red. The coffins consist of square boxes ot'cedar-wood,
the sides being about an inch in thickness. The mummies were admirably
preserved and elaborately encased in their cerements. Neither they nor
the coffins bore any trace of hieroglyphics, but on the lid of one of the
latter I found the word HATPAE and a date Many statues and busts of
the Greece-Roman period have also been found here, which indicate that
the town of Athribis was a place of considerable importance at this late
epoch of Egyptian history".

Near (109 AL) Tait-h the mountains enclosing the Nile higher
11p become visible in the distance, those on the li. (Arabian) side
appearing lower than those on the W. (Libyan) side. About 5 milL
later the outlines of the pyramids begin to loom in the distance
towards the S.W., and near [ 1201/2 M.) Kalyfib these stupendous
structures become distinctly visible. About 3 M. to the W. of
this point is the Barrage du Nil (p. 408 ], to which a disused
branch--line diverges. Railway to Zaliiztls, Isma'iliya, and Suez,
see It. 5. The Libyan chain becomes more distinctly visible, and
we also observe the Mohattam range with the citadel, and the mosque
of Mohammad'Ali with its slender minarets, The scenery now

15*



