[ 3 ]. Passports. Custom House.

PASSPORT,, are usually asked for at all the Egyptian ports, and if
the traveller is unprovided with one he is liable to detention and
great inconvenience. The passport is given up at the custom-house
and reclaimed at the traveller's consulate.

Ct Oht "OL'SE. The custom-house examination at Alexandria
is generally carried out with great thoroughness, though with perfeIt politeness, and no article of luggage is allowed to escape unopened. One of the objects chiefly sought for is cigars, on "hi 7")
per cent of the estimated value is charged. Considerable difficulty
is also made about admitting firearms and cartridges. The customhouse is now under European management, and it is on the whole
advisable to refrain from an attempt to facilitate matters by balsslIislI (p. Hi).

() n all goods exported, one per cent of duty is charged on the
estimated value, and luggage is accordingly examined again as the
traveller quits the country The exportation of antiquities is strictly
prohibited (p. 25). if luggage be forwarded across the frontier,
the keys must be sent with it; but, if possible, the traveller should
always superintend the custom-house examination in person.

(A). Consulates.

Consuls in the East enjoy the same privilege of exterritoriality
as ambassadors in other countries. A distinction is sometimes made
between professional ['consules missi') and commercial consuls,
the former alone having political functions to discharge; and there
are consuls, vice-consuls, and consular agents, possessing various
degrees of authority. In all cases of emergency the traveller should
apply for advice to the nearest consul of his country, through whom
the authorities are most conveniently approached, and who will
effectually watch over his interests. It is therefore very desirable
that travellers should take the earliest possible opportunity of entering into friendly relations with these most useful officials, and
the more so as access to some ofthe principal objects ofinterest cannot
be obtained without their intervention. The kavasses, or consular
IIl'llccrs, also render important services to travellers, for which they
expect a fee, although not entitled to demand payment

Mn 1 1 .lm. 1WD IIII impurlanl reform in the kg ni n Ls: and. M it "as often uncertain lnlnre wlIielI trilIIInal and by
what law II cust- unnld nltimalelv he decided the system caused serious
ianIIIII IIiI IIII- lIIIIlI I IIIII landed and C (IIIIIIII ruiIIl interests. The 1" gyplinn

gIIIII-IIIII III at lIII llI made a proposal, which Wail specially supported
by thc tlom miniswt,. r I Nubar t'ioUsa, and was acceded to by the lumen










