Monkeys, CAIRO. 3. Route. 233

proper fare. On Sundays and holidays the fares rise considerably, and
it is then often difficult to get a good vehicle. The salts, or boy who 111111
before the carriage to clear the way in the crowded streets, is a very
useful attendant (p. 217-) His services are included in the carriage-fare,
but he expects a small additional fee (2 piastres).

Omnibuses ply from the Place de la Bourse (PLCJl) to the railway stations
and to the ministries, the Khan el-Khalili, and the Shubra-Allée. Fares,
lst class 1 piastre tariff, 2nd class 20 11111.1.'Correspondences' at half fares.

Donkeys (comp. p. 11) afford the best and most rapid mode of locomotion in the narrow and crowded streets of Cairo, and they are to be
met with, day and night, in every part of the town. The attendants often
thrust them unceremoniously on the traveller's notice by 111111-1113 then,
directly in his path. These animals are to he found in great numbers at
all the most frequented points, and if one is wanted in the middle of the
night the word'hammér' (p. 11) shouted out immediately attracts a large
assortment of them. The donkey-boys of Cairo have all the manic vim-e
of deny 11.1 of a large city, and they often possess a considerable fund of
humour. which they show most readily when well paid. They delight
in excursions into the country (to Sakkfira, for instance), which afford
them a'fantasi'ya', or special treat; and the European will he astonished
at the smallness of their requirements and those of their beasts. The
donkeys are particularly serviceable in the narrow streets of the Arabian
quarter, Which afford shade and coolness, but are not accessible to carriages. For a short ride in the town the usual charge is 1--2 piastres
tariff (2100 e.); for 1 111., 1 fr.:, for a forenoon in the town, 21/2 fr.-, for
excursions 4-6 t'r. per day (ladies' saddle 1 f e tral, and a hakshish of
V's-3A fr. to the boy, unless he has been uncivil. When a donkey is hired to carry baggage, its attendant should be required to follow the same
route as the travellers themselves, and always to remain in sight. Per <
sons making a prolonged stay, as soon as they have found a good donkey with proper gear and a satisfactory attendant, had better secure its
future services by the payment of an ill "hal.; high. Care should be
taken to choose a dunkey witlt sum1d 1111 1e egs
(comp. p. 13). The traveller who is pressed for
time, and wishes to see as much as possible, cannot well dispense
with a cicerone. The best guides m-s fr. per day) are to be had at the
hotels. They often try to induce their employers to engage them for
distant tours, such as that lo lit. Sinai, or the voyage up the Nile, but
for such expeditions they are totally unfitted. As a rule, purchases should
never be made in their presence. If, however, the traveller knows a few
words or 111111111, and is not in a hurry, he will soon had his way through
every part of the city and the environs with the aid of his donkey-boy alone.

Dragomans (comp. pp. 13, 20511 Information as to trustworthy dragomans may be obtained at the traveller's consulate, at the hotels. ttt
Kawnmnn's, the bookseller, or at Zigada's, in the Mu The following
may be recommended: Michael Shav'ja, a Syrian Christian; Muhammad
Salim; Shall.

Post om e CPL 87; C, o, on the E. side of the Ezbekiyeh, open
daily from 7 a. m. to 8 p. m., and also for a short time after the arrival
of the last mail train, or for a longer time when the British, Indian, and
other important 111. Is come in. Letter-h 3 11 1111151 of the hotels, at
Berti's (the confectioner), at the railway-stations, and in various other places.

Telegraph Offices. Egyptian (Pl. 971; C, 5), next door to the New Hotel. The Egyptian telegraph only can he used for messages within Egypt. Telegrams for Upper
Egypt must be in Arabic. Comp
Theatres. Italian Opera (P K? 0,11). The winter season depends,
however, entirely on the subsidy of the Khedive. which is not always
granted. - Summer Theatre in the Ezbekiyeh Garden, see p. 258.

Physicians. Dr. Wildt; "Becker;
Dr, C'omarros, rr Greek who has studied in Germany. - Oculists: 171. 1111/1111.
Dr Brugsch. - Dentists: Mr. Broadway and Mr. Waller, both English. The addresses may he obtained at the hotels.



