236 Route 3. CAIRO. Religious chtien

in the' de la Bourse. The last also keeps
a stock of good cigars. generally of Dutch or German manufacture. Hood
cigars cost 10 fr. per hundred and good tobacco AU fr. per ohha tp. 28r

Arabian Bazaars, see pp. 23, 251. Near the end of the Muski is a
shop kept by a Kubian, who sells various Egyptian and Nubian articles,
suitable for presents. Thus an ostrich-egg costs 3 fr. and upwards, a
specimen of the m1;, or hall-fish (p. 84) 3-5 fr., a Nubian lance lfr.,
how with six arrows 12-15 fr., small fiddle 12 fr., square fiddle 20 fr.,
leopard skin 15-30 fr. (the skins, however. are insufficiently tanned, and
almost entirely stripped of their hair). Unless the proprietor of this shop
happens to be in want of money, it is difficult to obtain anything from
him at a reasonable price, and he sometimes closes his shop entirely. Stieks and whips of Hippopotamus Skin are sold by a Pole who speaks a
little Italian) net" the Roman Catholic church.

Arabian Woodwork is sold by "arm's, en the left side of
a court near the entrance to the Mus. Strangers should not fail to visit
his interesting workshop, which they may do without making any purchase. Similar objects maybe obtained at a more moderate rate from
Yn to, opposite Shepheard's Hotel, and Bertini, adjoining the U6tel du

hut their workmanship is scarcely so artistic as that of Harris.

The dates of the Religious Festivals of the Mohammedans, of which
Paint is the principal scene, cannot easily be given according to the European computation of time, owing to the variable character of the Arabian
lunar year. Calendars reducing the Mohammedan and Coptic reckoning
of time to the European system may, however, be obtained at any bookseller's.

The first month of the Arabian year is the Madam-em, the first ten
days of which Cashel and particularly the 10th (5/6212 worm-a), are eonsidered holy. On these days alms are distributed, and amulets purchased.
Mothers, even of the upper classes, carry their children on their shoulders, or cause them to he carried, through the streets, and sew into the
children's taps the copper-coins presented to them by passers-hy. On the
10th Moharrem, the highly revered IAshha day. on which inn and Eve
are said first to have met after their expulsion from Paradise, on which
Noah is said to have left the ark, and on which Wtstn, the grandson of
the prophet, fell as a martyr to his religion at the battle of Kerhela, the
Gitmir P_Iasanén (p. 292) is visited by a vast concourse of religious devotees, whose riotous proceedings had better not be inspected except from
a carriage, especially if ladies are of the party. Troops of Persians in
long white robes parade the streets, cutting themselves with sword in
the forehead until the blood streams down and stains their snowy garments. Two boys, representing I an and 1Jastm, are also led through
the streets on horseback with blood-stained clothes. Strangers may also

. on to the Pers. I mosque, in which the orgies are continued,
by special introduction. Towards evening :1 great zikr of whirling dervishes takes place here (p. 239).

At the end of' fee, the second month, or at the beginning of Rain"
rl-meu'el. the third, the Mecca CARAVAN (p. 143) returns home, its approach being announced by outriders. Some of the faithful who go to
meet the procession proceed as far as three days' iourney, but most of
them await its arrival at the m, et et- ayg (p. 33 j, m' lake.
Detached groups of pilgrims occasionally return before the rest of the
ade, and their arrival is always signalised by the blowing of trumpets and healing of drums. A pyramidal wooden erection, called the
Jluhmat, hung with beautifully embroidered stuffs, and carried by a
camel, accompanies the procession as a symbol of royalty. The interior
of the itehmet is empty, and to the outside of it are attached two copies
of the Koran. The procession usually enters the city by the Bdb en-Nasr
tp.'2Ni. In 11/292 hrs. it reaches the lttnneleh Cy. 2152!, the large open
space in front of the citadel, from which last twelve cannon-shots are
fired as a salute. The eortége then sweeps round the ltlunéleh, and tinally enters the citadel by the Bah e ] -\\'e'/.ir (H. E, 2). The departure of
"1': is attended with similar t a.






























































