e igious Festivals. CAIRO. J. Route. 237

The great festival of the Matti) ES-NEBL the birthday of the prophet,
is celebrated at the beginning of Rabi' el-awwet. the third month. The
preparations for it begin on the second day of the month, and the most
important ceremonies take place on the evening of the eleventh. The
city, and particularly the scene of the festival, is then illuminated by
means of lamps hung on wooden stands made for the purpose. Processions of dervishes (p. 150) parade the streets with flags by day, and with
lamps hoisted on poles by night. On this evening the sellers of sweetmeats frequently exclaim -'A grain of salt for the eye of him who Will
not bless the prophet!" The Déseh, or ceremony of riding over the dervishes, also took place on the eleventh of this month. Some fifty dervishes or more lay close together on the ground, and allowed the shekh
of the Sa'diyeh dervishes on horseback to ride over them. Accidents
rarely happened, although the horse trod on every one of the prostrate figures. During this ceremony the spectators shouted incessantly,
"AllahJé-laJéJéhJihl" This barbarous custom was forbidden by the
Khedive Tewfik. and the ceremonies are confined to the procession of the
shekh and the reading of the Koran in the Khedive's tent. At night
a great zikr is performed by the dervishes (p. 239). On this festival, as
on all the other'mfilids', the jugglers, buffoons, and other ministers of
amusement, ply their calling with great success (comp p. 150).

In the fourth month, that of 1mm ehAt-htw fet-tiuri), occurs the mom
liarly solemn festival of the birthday or 1161M of 51156; », the prophet's
grandson, the principal scene of which is the mosque of Hasanén, where
the head of Husén is said to be interred. This festival lasts fifteen days
and fourteen nights, the most important day being always a Tuesday
(ydm et-teMO. On this occasion the'flurdntyeh Dervishes (p.150) sometimes
go through their hideous performance of chewing and swallowing burning
charcoal and broken glass, and their wild dances. On the chief days of
this festival, and on their eves, great crowds congregate in and around
the mosque, and especially by the tomb of Sultan es- $ fileh in the
bazaar of the Nahhasin (p. 256 ]. On these occasions the Koran is read
aloud to the people, the streets adjoining the mosque are illuminated,
the shops are kept open, and story-tellers, jugglers, and others of the
same class attract numerous patrons.

In the middle of Regeb, the seventh month, is the mud of Seiyideh
Zé'lub ('Our Lady Zénab0, the grand-daughter of the prophet. The festival, which lasts fourteen days, the most important being a Tuesday, is
celebrated at the mosque of the Seiyideh Te) aab (p. 268), where she is said
to be buried.

On the 27th of this month is the Lélei el-Mfrtig, or night of the aseension of the prophet. the celebration of which takes place outside the
Bah e1-'Adawi, in the N. suburb of Cairo.

On the first, or sometimes on the second, Wednesday of Sha'bdn, the
eighth month, the JWlid of 1mdm Sluife'i is commemorated, the centre of
attraction being the burial-place of 1jir0.rilrtrfeh (p. 327). This festival
is numerously attended, as most of the Cairenes belong to the sect of
Imam Shafe'i (p.149). The ceremonies are the same as those at the
other mblids.

The month of Ramadan (p. 148), the ninth, is the mouth of fasting,
which begins as soon as a Muslim declares that he has seen the new
moon. The fast is strictly observed during the day, but the faithful indemnify themselves by eating. drinking, and smoking throughout the
greater part of the night. At dusk the streets begin to be thronged, the
story-tellers at the cafe's attract large audiences, and many devotees assemble at the mosques. The eve of th'th of the mouth is considered
peculiarly holy. It is called the Lem thither, or might of which owing
to the tradition that the Koran was sent down to Mohammed on this
night. During this sacred night the angels descend to mortals with blessings, and the portals of heaven stand open, affording certain admission to
the prayers of the devout. On this night the traveller should visit the
Hasanén mosque, or, especially if accompanied by ladies, that of Mohammed "Ali (p. 263) in the citadel, in order to see the great zikrs of the












