238 Route 3. CAI WI. Religious Festivd t

whirling and howling dervishes. of whom some thirty or forty take part
in the performances. The scene is of an exciting, but somewhat painful
character, particularly if any of the performers become'melbzts', a condition resembling that of epileptic convulsion (p. 152

The month Ramadan is succeeded by that or 51111111411, on the first
three days of which is celebrated the first and minor festival of rejoicing,
11111111 tlw Aralts 111414 et Snyhayyir Irhe lesser feast), but better
known by its Turkish name of Itch-11m. The object of the festival is to
give expression to the general rejoicing at the termination of the fast;
and. as at our Christmas, parents give presents to their children. and
masters to their servants at this festive season. Friends embrace each
other on meeting, and visits of ceremony are exchanged. During this festival the Khedivc also receives his principal officials. ambassadors, and
other dignitaries.

At this season the traveller may also pay a visit to the cemetery by
thc Bah en « Nasr. Or to one of the others. where numerous Cairenes assemble
to place palm branches or basilicum iririrrt) on the graves of their deceased
relatives, and to distribute dates, broad, and other gifts among the pom

A few days after the Be ihn, the pieces of the Kisweh, or covering
manufactured at Constantinople, at the cost of the Sultan, for the Ka'ha
(the most sacred sanctuary in the interior of the temple at Mecca), whither
it is annually carried by the pilgrims, are conveyed in procession to
the citadel, where they are sewn together and lined. The ceremonies
which take place on this occasion are repeated on a grander scale towards
the end of the month of Shawwrtl (generally the 231111. when there is a
gay procession of the escort which accompanies the pilgrimage caravan
to Mecca. and which takes charge of the Mahmal (p. 236). On this occasion every true believer in the prophet, if he possibly can, spends the
whole day in the streets. The Woman don their smartest attire. Many
of the harem windows are opened, and the veiled inmates gaze into the
streets. The chief scene of the ceremonies is the Ruméleh (Pl. F, 2). at
the fool of the citadel, where a sumptuous tent of red velvet and gold is
pitched for the reception of the dignitaries. The procession is headed
with soldiers. who are followed by camels adorned with gaily coloured
trappings, and hearing on their humps bunches of palm-branches with
oranges attached. Each section of the cavalcade is preceded by an
Arabian hand of music, the largest section being that which accompanies
the Takht Rattan, or litter of the Emir el-l.lagg, and the next in order
that of the 111m flayy, or leader of the pilgrims, with his attendants.
Next follow various detachments (if pilgrims and dervishes with banners.
and lastly the 2talyna1 (see above). A picturesque appearance is presented
by the camp of the assembled pilgrims (1111,11) at the Birket e1 Ilngg
(P. 3351. whence the caravan finally Mart, for Mecca.

On the 10th of thtl-higgeh, the twelfth month, begins the great festival of Etv'lzl ct-Kvbt'r, which resembles the lesser 11111 fel-'td e.1 8.ughwyin already mentioned. () n this day, if on no other throughout the
year, every faithful Muslim eats a piece of meat in memory of the sacri »
tice of Abraham, and the poor are presented with meat for this purpose
by the rich.

The Muslims also celebrate the Christian Easter Week, although in a.
different manner. and of course for different reasons from the Christians. On
Palm Sunday (had 21 khus) the women bind palm twigs round their heads
and fingers. () n the following day (Monday) it is customary to catfalrfts
(111-1111111211) with cummin. On the Tuesday the diet of the faithful consi'ts of a kind or cheese-broth with onions, and the day is therefore called Iu'ba' 1511120, or'th's Weduesday'. On this day the trhubera herb
is said to have addressed to Job the words -'Wash thyself with my
Juice. and thou shalt recover". He did so. and recovered, and to this
day the whole of the Egyptian Muslims wash themselves with gharglmra
15.3"" in nwmory of the miracle. Illuumly Thursday is the Pea-Thursday
at the Muslims (Mantis ct-bisilla). Good Friday is called gmn'a et-mafr0la, 111, h'ih'11 Wednesday'. Saturday is the sebl en-mlr or'sabbalh



