' Dcrvishes. 3.1? 1111111. 3. Route. 239

of light' (so named from the sacred fire which on this day bursts forth
from the Holy Sepnlchre at Jerusalem ] On this day it is customary for
the 31111111115 to use a kind of eye-powder for the purpose of strengthening
their eyes, to get themselves bled, and to eat coloured Easter eggs. On
Easter Sunday (rid tnr-rrasdizr) the Molinmmcdans usually visit their
Christian friends, and these Visits are returned during the feast of Beirim.
With the RISING OF THE NILE there are also connected several interesting festivals, closely resembling those of the ancient period of the
Pharaohs, which even the Christian epoch was unable entirely to ohliterate. As, however, they take place in summer, few travellers will
have an opportunity of witnessing them. As these festivals have reference to a regularly recurring phenomenon of nature, their dates are necessarily fixed in accordance with the Coptic solar reckoning of time, instead of the variable Arabian lunar year. - The night of the lith of the
Coptic month Ra'fina (17th June) is called Lem err-Aruhyr, i.e. the'night
of the drop', as it is relieved that a drop from heaven for a tear of lsis,
according to the ancient Egyptian myth) falls into the Nile on this night
and causes its rise. The astrologers profess to calculate precisely the
hour of the fall of the sacred drop. The Cairenes spend this night on
the banks of the Nile, either in the open air, or in the houses of friends
near the river, and practise all kinds of superstitious customs. One of
these consists in the placing of a piece of dough by each member of a
family on the roof of the house; if the dough rises, happiness is in store
for the person who placed it there, while its failure to rise is regarded
as a had omen. On let June the river begins slowly to rise (comp.
p. 57). On the 27th of the Coptic mouth BaYana (3rd July) the 11111112111
ea-Ni "Nile- e1-1c1- is frequently heard in the morning. announcing to
the an 10115 the number of inches that the river has risen. The munadi
is accompanied by a boy, with whom he enters on a long religious dialogue by way of preface to his statements, which, however. are generally
inaccurate. The next important event is the Cutting of the Dam (your
[ 1801' el-ba { u', or 3/6711 wefa el-bay'). which takes place between the Ist and
the 11th of the Coptic month of Misra (Le. between Gth and 19th August),
when the principal ceremonies are performed on and near the island of
Roda (p. 318). The Nile-crier. attended by boys carrying flags, announces
the Wefa ert-Nil tthe plenitude. or superfluity of the Nile), or period when
the water has reached its normal height of sixteen all: (p. 5%). The cutting through of the dam takes place amid general rejoicings and noisy
festivities. It appears from inscriptions on columns found on the Nile
near the Gebel Selseleh, that similar festivals connected with the rise of
the river were celebrated as early as the nth cent. before Christ.
Dervishes (comp. p. 1501. The'Dancing Dervishes' perform their
111 the Tekiyet el-Jlaulawiyeh (p. 265) every Friday from 2 to 3 p.111. l
visitors walk in and take their seats outside the space enclosed by boards,
no permission being necessary (bahshish of 1-2 piastres on leaving). A
visit may he paid in the same way to the performances of the'Howling
Dervishes', whose zikr takes place in the Gami" Fay, er.rAin (p. 317),
also on Fridays from 2 to 3 p.m. Both these curious scenes may he witnessed on the same day if the traveller goes early to one of them leaves
after 25 min., and then visits the other, thus seeing quite enough of each.

SIGHTS AND DISPOSITION or Tum

The duration of the traveller's stay at Cairo depends of course
on his own inclination and the objects he has in view. He may
wish to devote his attention chiefly to the mosques, or to the streetscenes; he may endeavour to find his way through the intricacies
of the city alone, or with the assistance of a donkey-boy, or he may
prefer to hire a carriage and a commissionnaire. By carefully preparing a plan beforehand, and starting early every morning, the






