. History. CAIRO. 3. Route. 241

FIFTH DAY [ by carriage): Pyramids of Gizeh o. 340; which
may be seen in the course of a forenoon, if necessary); visit Shubra,
if time remains, in the afternoon, with Cicolani's Gardens in the
Shubra Avenue.

SIXTH DAY (by railway and on donkey--back): Memphis and
Sahhéra (p. 371).

SEVENTH DAY (by railway): laths of Helwan (p. 403). and
(on donkey-hack) quarries of Tum and Ma'gara (p. 405).

EIGHTH DAY (by railway): Barrage du Nil (p. 406).

The above itinerary will on the whole be found the most nouvenient, although some riders will perhaps consider several of the
days somewhat too fatiguing.

The following places deserve repeated visits: - the Museum
at Bfilah; the Citadel, or the windmill-hill at the E. end of the
Rue Neuve (prolongation of the Muski), for the sake of the view of
the Tombs of the Khalifs and the hills of Mokattam; the Tombs of
the Khalifs; the Ezhekiyeh Garden; the Shubra Avenue, .011 a
Friday; the Bazaars (and street--traffic), on a Thursday.

Special permission is necessary for the following places:
(a) From the Wakf Office (p. 259), through the consulate, for
all the mosques, including the Tombs of the Khalifs and the Mamelukes (pp. 282, 327). Fridays and festivals are unsuitable days for
a visit to the mosques. The lrawwas of the consulate who escorts
the visitors usually receives a fee of 5 fr.

(b) From the minister of war, through the consulate, for the
Gimi' Salaheddin Yfisuf (p. 264), the Gratmir Suhhntul Pasha (p. 264),
and the fortifications at the Barrage du Nil (p. 406).

(c) From the master of the ceremonies through the consulate,
for the gardens and chateau of Gezireh (p. 328).

(d) An introduction from the consulate is also requisite in order
to procure admission to the house of the Shékh es-Sadad, the representative of the descendants of Mohammad.

HISTORY or Came. When Egypt was conquered by Cambyses (13.0.
525) the Babylonians are said to have founded New Babylon on the site
now occupied by Old Cairo, and during the Roman period that city be.
came the headquarters of one of the three legions stationed in Egypt.
Remains of the Roman castrum are still preserved here. In A.D.638
New Babylon was captured by'Arne ibn el-'A.si, the general of Khalif
rOmar; and when he started on his victorious progress towards Alexandria, he commander ] the tent (them) he had occupied during the siege to
be taken down. As it was discovered, however, that a pigeon had built
her nest upon it, Am ordered the tent to be left standing until the
young birds should take wing. After the capture of Alexandria, rAmr
requested the Khalif to allow him to take up his residence there, but
rOmar refused to accord permission, as Alexandria appeared to him
to be rife with elements of discord, and, moreover, too far distant
from the centre of the conquered country to be suitable for its capital.
rAmr accordingly returned tu bis tent around which his adherents e camped. A new city thus gradually sprang up, and the name of Fostat
continued to he applied to it in memory of its origin. rAnu- afterwards
erected a mosque (p. 321 ], and he is also said to have begun the con
| BAEDEKER's Egypt L 2nd Ed. 10



