2-12 Route 3. CAIRO. History.

struction of the canal (Khalig), which, leaving the Nile opposite the inland M 1:69", intersects the town. and is supposed to have been intended
to connect the Nile with the Red Sea. The city was considerably extended in the reign of the splendour-loving Ahmed ibn Tulan, the founder
of the dynasty of the Tulunides, who erected the new quarter of ElKhutiya. of the) resent citadel. Among the buildings ascribed
to him is the mosque (p. 205) J which still bears his name. The town of
was favoured by his successors also, and particularly by his son
yeh, who erected a palace here; and at length, under the
Fiitimite Khamt tn. 102), the modern city of Cairo was built adjacent to
the old. The new city was founded by Jaime, the general of the Fi! mite
Khalit' Mu'ire, to the N. of Ehlihetiyn, as a residence for the khalit', and
as barracks for the soldiers commanded by him. At the hour when the
foundation of the walls was laid, the planet Mars, which the Arabs call
lfahir, or'the victorious', crossed the meridian of the new city; and
) lu'izz accordingly named the place J1a_sr el-Ifiihira, or thira. hlasr, the
name of Egypt or of its capital, seems also already to have been applied
to Fos.tii.t, which, to distinguish it from lllasr el-Kfihira, was now called
May el-'Ati? a (the present Old Cairo ]. The new town extended rapidly.
Bricks were easily made of the Nile mud, the Nohattam hills atrorded
excellent stone, while the gigantic ruins of the ancient Memphis on
the opposite bank of the river were also used as a quarry, as the
foundations of the houses Mill show In 973 the new city of Cairo was
constituted the capital of Egypt, and for many centuries after that period
the destinies of the country were determined here. In 1100 the citadel
which still commend: the city was erected by Saliheddin (Saladiul on the
slope of the lllolgattam hills, and the same sultan caused the whole town,
together with the citadel itself. to be enclosed by a wall, 29,000 ens in
length. Under his luxurious and extravagant successors Cairo was greatly
extended and magnificently embellished. According to the Arabian historians, the most enterprising of these sultans was Nohammed en-Ntlsjir
N. 1341), who constructed numerous handsome edifices both within and
without the citadel, as well as canals and roads, thus converting the ruins
and sand-hills in the environs into beautiful suburbs, with palaces and
pleasure-grounds. At that period, however, Cairo was fearfully devastated
by the plague, as it had been on two former occasions fin 1067 and 1295),
and was also several times subsequently, and, according to Mahrizi, no
fewer than 900,0000) persons died in old and New Cairo between November, 1348, and January, 1319. The town suffered severely in other ways
also, and indeed its whole history, so far as recOrded, like that of the
Sultans and the Mamelukes themselves, seems to have presented an
almost continuous sn6cessiou of revolutions, rapine, and bloodshed. As
most of the Mameluke Sultans who resided in the citadel diet! a violent
death, so the reign of almost every new potentate began with bitter and
sanguinary contests among the entire for the office of vizier, while but
few reigns were undisturbed by insurrections in the capital. During the
third regime of Mohammad en-Nasir, who had been twice deposed, and
as often recovered his throne, a persecution of the Christians look place
at Cairo. The Christians, of whom great numbers resided in Cairo and
throughout the whole of Egypt, were accused by the people of incenIliarislu. Their churches were accordingly closed or demolished, while
they themselves were so ill » treated and oppressed, especially in the reign
of Sultan Sale ]; (1351-51), that many of them are said to have embraced
lslamisin. In 1366 and 1367, in the reign of Snltfm Sha'bcin, sanguinary
conflicts took place in the streets of Cairo between hostile parties of
Mamelukes, and in 1377 Sha'ba'm himself was tortured and strangled in
the eitudil. Even greater disorders attended the dethronement of Sultan
.1350), when the wildest anarchy prevailed at Cairo, the convicts
escaped from their prisons, and in concert with the populace plundered
the houses of the emirs and the public magazines. The following year
a rebellion again broke out among the Mamelukes, who stormed the
citadel, in Consequence of which llarkfik regained possession of the
throne, and celebrated his triumphal entry into Cairn. Searcely, however,



