Ifistary. CAIRO. 3. Route. 243

had he closed his eyes and been succeeded by Foray, when the Maniclukes again revolted, and renewed conflicts took place for possession of
the citadel, during which the city was partly plundered. Similar scenes
were repeated on almost every change of government. The turbulence of
the Mamelukes, who were always treated with too much consideration by
the sultans, now became more and more unbearable; they robbed the
people in the markets, assaulted citizens in the public streets, and grossly
insulted respectable women. Hitherto the outrages committed by these
troops had been chiefly connected with some political object, but from
the middle of the 15th century downwards they were generally perpetrated with a view to plunder. Thus in 1453, when fires repeatedly broke
out at Cairo and Bolalg, it was generally believed that the Mamelukes
had caused them in order to obtain opportunities for robbery. In the
course of the following year they forcibly entered the mosque of'Amr at
Old Cairo on a Friday, and robbed the numerous Women who were then
attending divine service. In the Sultanate of Khoshhadem 0461437 ] the
Mamelukes plundered the bazaars of Old Cairo, and in the reign of Mohammad (11196795), son of Kait-Bey, they roved through the streets at
night, maltreated the police, and plundered various quarters of the city.
In 1496, when rival emirs were almost daily fighting in the streets of
Cairo, the Mamelukes of course utilised the opportunity for plunder.

On 26th Jan 1517, the Osman Sultan Selim L, after having gained a
victory in the neighbourhood of Cairo, entered the city. Tdman Hey,
the last Mameluke sultan. again gained possession of the ill-guarded town
on 28th Jan, but was obliged to evacuate it on the following day, and
was taken prisoner and executed (p. 272). Before Selim returned to Constantinople, he caused the finest marble columns which adorned the
palace in the citadel to be removed to his own capital. Thenceforward Cairo became a mere provincial capital, and its his is almost an entire blank down to the period of the French expedition. On
22nd July, 17987 after the Battle of the Pyramids, Cairo was occupied by
Bonaparte, who established his headquarters here for several months, and
who quelled with sanguinary severity an insurrection which broke out
among the populace on 23rd--25th September. At the beginning of the
year 1799 Bonaparte started from Cairo on his Syrian expedition, and on
his return to France, Kléber was left as eommander-in-chief ofthe French
troops at Cairo, where he was assassinated on 14th June, 1800. In
Nut the French garrison under Belliard, being hard pressed by the grand
vizier, was compelled to capitulatc. On 3rd August, 1805, Mohammad
'Ali, as the recognised pasha of Egypt, took possession of the citadel,
which for the last time witnessed a bloody scene on ist March, 1811,
when the Mameluke Beys were massacred by Mohammed's order. Since
then nothing has interrupted the peaceful development of the city.

Cairo, Kahira, 0r Mugr el-Kahira (Nasir the victorious', Mast
being the ancient Semitic name for Egypt; p. 30 ], or symply
May 01' Misr, is situated in 30° (Y N. latitude, and 31°'36' E. longitude, on the right bank of the Nile, about 9 M. to the S of the
so-called'cow's belly", the point where the stream divides into the
Rosetta and Damietta arms, and has not inaptly been styled'the
diamond stud on the handle of the fan of the Delta'. On the E.side
of the city, which covers an area of about 11 square miles, rise
the barren, reddish cliffs of the Mohattam Hills (p. 330), about
650 ft. in height, which form the commencement of the eastern
desert. The city has extended so much towards the west of late
years that it now reaches the bank of the river and has entirely absorbed smog (p. 293), which was formerly its harbour.

Cairo is the largest city in Africa, as well as in the Arabian
regions, and is the second city in the Turkish empire. It is the

16*



