244 Route 3. CAIRO. Population.

residence of the Khedive, and of the ministers and principal authorities, and is presided over by a governor of its own. Owing
to the secluded habits of the Mohammedan families, and in
consequence of the fact that a large section of the lower classes of
the community have no fixed abode, it is a very difficult matter to
ascertain the number of the inhabitants with even approximate
precision. Judging from the average annual number of births in
Egypt and at Cairo, the population of the city may be estimated
at 400,000 souls, although at the census of 1882 it was returned
as 366,108 only. The number of resident Europeans is about 21,000,
including 7000 Italians, 11200 Greeks, 4000 French, 1600 English,
1600 Austrians, and 1200 Germans. Natives of all the principal
Oriental states are also to be found at Giro. The mass of the
population consists of Egypto-Arabian townspeople (p. 48), Fellah
settlers (p. 30), Copts (p. 42), Turks o. 52), and Jews o. 53),
the last of whom number 7000 souls. Besides the natives and the
European residents, the traveller will frequently encounter negroes
of various races, Northern Africans, Beduins, Syrians, Persians,
Indians, and other Oriental settlers.

The Hospitals mentioned at p. 234 are fitted up in the European
style, and so likewise is the Military School (Ecoles Militaires;
in the rAhbisiyel0, with its four departments (staff, artillery, cavalry, and infantry), connected with which there is a Veterinary
School. Cairo also possesses a Girls' School, maintained by government (founded through the exertions of Dr. Dor, a Swiss), and a
Cliemieal-Pharrnaceutieal Laboratory, presided over by M. Gastinel,
and possessing an excellent pharmaceutical collection. The medicines required for all the hospitals in the country are prepared at
the laboratory, and the yield of the 19 saltpetre manufactories of
Egypt (about 1000 tons per annum) is tested here.

The Police Force (Zubliyeh, P ]. 86), an admirably organised institution, consists ofabont 300 officials, including a number oflluropeans (chiefly Italians), who are very obliging to strangers, and
who preside so effectually over the public safety that the traveller
may explore the remotes: and dirtiest purlieus of the city without
apprehension of danger. If, however, he should have any cause
for complaint, he should lay the matter before his consulate o. Scenes presented by the city of the Khalifs afl'ord
an inexhaustible fund of amusement and delight, admirably
illustrating the whole world of Oriental fiction, and producing an
indelible impression on the uninitiated denizen of the West.
'What makes (him so romantic and novel is the contrasts of barbarous and civilised scenes and incidents it presents, which forcibly
strike and interest even the most utterly blast? European, and
which recur in every department and phase of life in this Arabian
capital of the 1113111, and indeed throughout all Egypt. Cairo may
be compared to a mosaic of the most fantastic and bizarre descrip


