Street Scenes. CAIRO. 3. Route. 245

tion, in which all nations, customs, and epochs are represented,
--a living museum of all imaginable and unimaginable phases
of existence, of refinement and degeneracy, of civilisation and
barbarism, of knowledge and ignorance, of paganism, Christianity,
and Mohammedanism. In the Boulevards of Paris and on London
Bridge I saw but the shadow, and at Alexandria the prelude only,
of the Babel of Cairo, to which the Roman or the Venetian carnival
is tame and commonplace. These marvellous scenes cannot fail to
strike every one, and particularly the uninitiated new-comer, most
forcibly. In order to enjoy them thoroughly, one cannot help
wishing for eyes behind, as well as before, and for the steady power
of forcing one's way possessed by the camel of burden'. (B. Goltz.)
There is, however, no great difficulty in forcing one's way through
the crowd in the Muski, although the chaotic, carnival-like scene
which it presents can hardly be depicted in too bright colours.

Most of the streets in the old part of the town are still unpaved and inaccessible to carriages, and they are too often
excessively dirty. The Khedive, however, is annually increasing
the number of carriage-ways by the demolition of old streets and
the erection of buildings in the modern style. The lanes separating the rows of houses in the Arabian quarter are so narrow that
there is hardly room for two riders to pass, and the projecting
balconies of the harems with their gratings often nearly meet. The
new quarter on the W. side of the city possesses broad, shadeless
streets, handsome avenues, and the beautiful Ezbekiyeb Garden
(p. 258); but Oriental life seems to find this atmosphere uncongenial, and it must therefore be sought for in the old quarters, and
particularly in the Muski, the chief business thoroughfare. The busy
traffic in this street often presents an'interminable, ravelled, and
twisted string of men, women, and animals, of Walkers, riders, and
carriages of every description. Add to this the cracking of the
drivers' whips, the jingling of money at the table of the changers
established at every corner of the street, the rattling of the brazen
vessels of the water-carriers, the moaning of the camels, braying
of donkeys, and barking of dogs, and you have a perfect pandemonium'. Europeans, and even ladies, may ride with perfect safety
through the midst of all this confusion, and they will often have
opportunities of observing most picturesque and amusing scenes.
The denseness of the crowd sometimes seems to preclude the possibility of farther progress, but the hammer, or donkey-hoy, is

pretty sure to elbow a passage without much difficulty.

'Having carefully learned the expressions ana'dwt'z ("Izmir (I want a
donkey) and bikor kirsh dell - many piastres), I tied to the temptation ofplungiug recklessly into the thick ofAralJian life, its conversation,
and its equestrianism. 1 therefore pronounced the mystic words with the
satisfaction of a child which utters articulate expressions for the first time
and when I was instantly so perfectly understood by a some of donkey
boys that they all offered me their donkeys at once (though perhaps
they would have done so had I not spoken at all), I felt like a magician










