2 IO Route a. mum. Street scenes.

who has succeeded in discovering an effectual formula of conjuration.
After this display of my abilities, I vaulted into the saddle with as much
ease and assurance as if Cairo had been my home. The donkey-boy next
probably asked me -'where to"? Whereupon, feeling that my stock of
Arabic phrases and cabalistic formula } was nearly exhausted, I replied
in a very abbreviated style - kullo, mm, that is,'everything' (meaning
that I wanted to see everything). The donkey-boy then nodded his yam/ { b
mm m-ef ('all right, I undorsMnd0, and I now felt perfect confidence in
my powers of Speech... My donkey now set "at a gallop and plunged
into the midst ofa labyrinth of lanes full of riders and walkers, but
where I was going to, or how far. or why, I was unable to tell. That,
however, was precisely the joke of the thing'. (60112.)

Lovers of the picturesque will find such rides very enjoyable.
When they have sufficiently explored the narrower streets, they
may direct their attendant to return to the Muski C'lil Muski, ya
hammar'), whence the hotels are easily reached.

It is not, however, until the traveller has learned to distinguish
the various individuals who throng the streets, and knows their
different pursuits, that he can thoroughly appreciate his walks or
rides. We may therefore give a brief description of some of the
leading characteristics of the different members of the community
The traveller will probably first be struck with the differences of
colour in the Turbans. From a very early period it has been customary for the Arabs to distinguish their different sects, families,
and dynasties by the colour of their turbans. Green turbans form
the badge of the'Sherifs', or descendants of the prophet, and they
are also frequently worn by the Mecca pilgrims, green being also
the colour of the banner of the prophet. The'Ulama, or clergy
and scholars, usually wear a very wide and broad, evenly folded
turban of light colours The orthodox length of a believer's turban
is seven times that of his head, being equivalent to the whole
length of his body, in order that the turban may afterwards he
used as the wearer's winding sheet, and that this circumstance
may familiarise him with the thought of death. The dress and
tnrbans of the Copts, Jews, and other non-Muslim citizens, are
generally of a dark colour, those of the Copts being blue, and
those of the Jews yellow, in accordance with a decree issued in
the Mu, century (p. 2712). Blue is also the colour indicative of
mourning. The Women of the poorer and rustic classes wear nothing but a blue gown and a veil. Their ornaments consist of silver
or copper bracelets, earrings, and ankle-rings, while their chins,
arms, and chests are often tatooed with blue marks. In Upper
Egypt nose-rings are also frequently seen. The women of the
upper classes are never so handsomely dressed in the streets as
at home. Their lignres, in early life, are generally upright and
Kram-ful. They colour their eyelashes and eyelids dark, and their
linger and too--nails with henna, which gives them a brownish
yellow tint. When equipped for riding or walking, most ladies
wear a light--coloured silk cloak, with very wide sleeves (to!) or
which), over their home attire. They also don the buried, or veil,



