Street Seance CAIRO. 3. Route. 247

which consists of a long strip of muslin, covering the whole of the
face except the eyes, and reaching nearly to the feet. Lastly they
put on the Izrtbnm, a kind of mantle, which in the case of married women consists of two breadths of
glossy black silk. Thus disguised, they
look unnaturally broad and unwieldy, and
not unlike bats. The wealthier ladies, who
drive in their carriages attended by eunuchs,
usually veil their faces up to their eyes
with thin gauze in accordance with the
fashion of Constantinople. With regard to
circumcision, weddings, and funerals, the
ceremonies attending which are similar in
all the Egyptian towns, see p. 103. Among
other customs we may also mention the
peculiar mode in which a woman carries her
child, either astride her shoulder, or resting on her hip.

Amid this busythrong of men and animals resound the various cries of street-vendors and other persons who transact their
business in the open air, and the warning
shouts of outrunners (sins), coachmen, don-.
key-attendants, and camel--drivers. The
words most commonly heard are--Viplak',
'shemélak','yeminak','guarda','Of, 121?,
As a rule, however, the Cairenes pay no
attention to these warnings unless addressed to them individually. Thus,'riglnlt ya
Ichuwfigch' C'your foot, sir", Le.'take care of
your foot'; Iclmwfigch is the usual title given
to Europeans by the Arabs, and is said to
have originally meant'merchant' only);
'shetnfrlakyii shtkh'C'yourlett side, o chief');
'yem'mnk yfi bint' (jour right side, girl');
'glalwilc mi 5512' ('your back, lady');'ytl
Itrtseh' (bride);'yd sherif' (descendant of the
prophet);'ya cfcndi' (Turkish official) ,--BEGGARS are very numerous at Cairo, most
of them being blind. They endeavour to
excite compassion by invoking the aid of

Allah:'yo Moltunnin, ya Rabb' CO awakener of pity, 0 Master);
1mm: min alluh IzuItIt lukmet'5fo CI seek from my Lord the price
of a morsel of bread');' ('l am the guest
of God and of the Prophet'). The usual answer of the passer- by is,
'Allah yihannin ulelc CGod will have mercy on you), or'Atmh

ya'tik' ('God give thee', comp. p. 16 ]





