"'
245 Route 3. CAI 1:0. Street Scam.

One of the most popular characters to be met with in the streets
of Cairo is the tyyA, or "Xi'nnL-CAm: nm, with his goatskin of
water, r carried either by himself or by a donkey who still plies his
trade, although the new waterworks (p. 381) could easily supply
every house in the city, as well as the public seblls (p. 17 7), with
water, and though on many of the houses there are brass tubes
through which passers-by may take a draught from the main pipes.
llis usual cry is -'vo'auroatl Attnh' may God recompense me).
T he labour he undergoes during eight months in the year, when
he. brings his heavy load all the way from the Nile, is very severe
and miserably underpaid; but during the four months when the
river is rising he obtains his supply from the canal by which Cairo
is intersected. The springs,
being generally brackish, are
not suitable for drinking. Many
of the salglgas sell water to
the people in the streets. These
are known as'saltlw sharbels',
and they carry their supply of
water either in a skin or in a
large earthen-ware vessel on
their backs. Theyoffer adraught
to passers-by in a brazen saucer
or in a kulleh (porous home),
for which they receive a small
copper coin, and sometimes no
payment at all. On the occasion
of festivals, and particularly on
tlientrilidsrbirur0ys) of saints,
persons who desire to do a
pious work frequently hire one
of the sahhas to dispense water gratuitously. The sakha then
shouts in a singing tone,'sebit Alto gii' tshCm yo mityelt', thus inviting all thirsty persons to drink gratuitously; while he occasionally turns to his employer, who generally stands near him, with
the words,'God forgive thy sins, () dispenser of the drink-offering',
or'liod have mercy on thy parents', to which the persons who
have partakeu of the water reply,'arn? n' (amen), or'God have
mercy on them and on us'. After numerous blessings of a similar
kind have been interchanged, tho sal; ia hands the last cup of water
to hi' employer, with the words,'The remainder for the liberal
man, and Paradise for the confessor of the Unity', God bless thee,
thou dispenser of the drink--offi-ring!'

TIm ljmuuli, who belong to one of the orders of Ilm'vishos
fp. lull, are also engaged in selling water, which they flavour with orange-blossom (swim), while others add a little brandy
('chc-sas) or grape-juice (: cbib). There are also numerous itin




