250 Route 3. « 2.11110. Schoo st
"did' (new pistachios);'el-wurtl kiln 511611 min "1111111: en-ncbi
fattuh' [ the rose was a thorn; it blossomed from the sweat of the
prophet'). This legend resembles that of the thorns at thiaco
among the Sabine llills,11hich were converted into rose bushes by
the blood of St. Francis.'Rawfiyelt et-genneh yé tamer [ 1131171113
(/odours of Paradise, 0 flowers of henna'). With regard to the
henna plant, see p. 73

When the work of the day is over, the solemn and sonorous cry
of the mneddin, summoning the faithful to prayer (see p. 147),
reverberates from the tops of the minarets; but much of the
busy street-traffic goes on till nearly midnight, and during the
month of 11111111115111 it even continues throughout the whole night,
while the barking of hungry dogs and the braying of donkeys frequently form an additional interruption to repose. At a very early
hour in the morning the same scenes reeommcnee, and on leaving
his hotel the traveller is tempted to believe that Cairo is celebrating a never-ending Carnival.

While peranibulating the streets of the city the traveller will
frequently have occasion to observe the Schools (ktuttby, which are
open on the side next the street, and one of which is attached to
almost every public fountain. He will find it very amusing to watch
the efforts of the filo, or schoolmaster, in teaching his pupils with
the aid of admonitions and blows, while the boys themselves recite verses of the Koran with a swaying motion of their bodies,
bending over their metal writing-tablets, and yet finding time for
the same tricks as European schoolhoys. Unless the visitor has an
order of admission from the minister of public instruction, it is not
advisable to watch the fiiyih too closely. as he is easily disconcerted
and is then apt to he nncivil.

These schools all have a purely religious character, and are exclusively creations of El Islam. The more reading and recitation of verses from
the Koran being' 111 itself considered a meritorious act the great object of
these schools is to teach the pupils to recite the Koran by heart. Each boy
is provided with :1 copy of the sacred hook, if he can all'nrd to buy one,
an ink and pen ease (dmcdyeh) and a tablet of metal or of wood painted
white. After learning the alphabet, the pronunciation and the values of
numbers. he is then taught the ninety-tsine'beautiful mum's of Allih'
contained in the Koran, a, knowledge of which is necessary to enable him
to repeat the ninety- -nine 111113013 of the Mohammedan rosary (sehhai
The boy is then made to write out the Film or first chapter (stitch)
of the Koran, which he reads often enough to impress it perfectly on
his memory swaying his body to and fro the while, whereby, as he
imagines, his memory is rendered more pliant. After learning the first
chapter, he next proceeds to learn the last, the last but one. and the
others in the same inverted order, until he reaches the second, the reason being that the chapters gradually diminish in length from the
: the htst.Althtrurgh the language is often difficult and obscure,
n" an that the lmy who knows the whole hook
h1'hu1rt 11 Holly understands hut little of it. As soon as the boy him
I ut-ti tht whole of the Koran in this 11113, the completion of his s..ndi1: s
is 1om1n1111or11lcd hy the celebration of the lr'ltatmcll, 11 i11u1ily testi1'.al to
11 huh tht- scl1ool1na1' [ cr is invited.

These schools are maintained by the private enterprise of the school







