Bazaars. CAIRO. 3. Route 251

masters themselves, who exact payment of 1-2 piastres per week from
each pupil. There are in all about 280 schools of this kind at Cairo. presided over by 290 teachers and attended by 8600 pupils; at Old Cairn
there are 26 schools with 30 masters and 909 boys; with 42 masters and 1320 boys. - The It higher government
schools are attended by mo pup ], while the foreign settlers support
57 schools with 247 teachers and 4310 pupils.

In walking through the bazaars (see below) and other streets,
the traveller will be interested in observing how industriously and
skilfully most of the artizans work with their very primitive tools.
The Carpenters (nagyCtrj, for example, seem to ply their craft with
very tolerable success, without bench, vice, rule, or drill. In
order to steady the piece of wood on which they are working they
make use of the weight of their bodies, and sometimes of their
teeth and their toes. For a rule they substitute a piece of string
or a palm-twig, and for boring holes they use an iron spike
imbedded in a circular piece of wood, which they turn by means
of an instrument resembling a fiddle--bow (p. 257). Their principal
tool consists of a small axe, which serves many different purposes.
A number of other primitive tools are described at pp. 256,' W.
- After the closing of the shops in the evening it is customary
for the porters or watchmen to place their beds (serir) of palmtwigs outside the entrances, where they spend the night, thus
presenting a very curious and characteristic phase of Egyptian
out-of-door life.

The Bazaarsi of Cairo (comp. p. 23), though inferior to those
of Damascus and Constantinople, present to the European traveller
so many novel features, and so many interesting traits of Oriental
character, that he should endeavour to pay them repeated visits,
in order to become acquainted with their peculiarities.

Most of the bazaars consist of narrow, and often dirty, lanes,
generally covered over with an awning to shade them from the sun
and flanked with rooms of various sizes, open towards the street,
and about 3 ft. above the level of the ground (comp. p 2--1 ].
These lanes usually enclose a massive building of considerable size
(khan), consisting of two stories, and containing an inner court,
around which are grouped a number of magazines for goods. Some
of the older of these buildings, particularly those in the Gameliyeh
(p. 257) and the Khan el-Khalili (p. 255), are architecturally iuteresting, and possess handsome mushrebiychs. A considerable
number of these kh'aus form separate quarters of the city (Mm) 7
which were formerly closed by massive, iron-mounted gates, still
in some cases preserved; and they were carefully guarded at night
by watchmen appointed for the purpose. No one was permitted to



















ug a Persian word, the Arabic equivalent
for which is safe. The magazines of the wholesale merchants, with their
large courts, are called walrkulelt which the Franks have corrupted to
Uccalch, Decal, or Okellu (pp. 257: 279 ]. v



