252 Route 3. CAIRO. Humane.,

pass through the gates without undergoing an examination by the
custodian, and this custom still prevails at Damascus and in the
towns of Upper Egypt, such as Siut. in former times, during the
prevalence of the Mameluke conflicts, which were always attended
with the pillaging and assassination of many peaceful citizens,
the gates of the khans frequently remained closed for several days
together, for the purpose of affording protection against the outrages of these lawless mercenaries.

The principal market-days are Monday and Thursday, when
the traffic in the narrow streets is so great that it becomes difficult
or impossible to traverse them; but it is on these occasions that
the most characteristic scenes of Oriental life are witnessed. Ped-.
lers are seen forcing their way through the crowd, shouting at the
top of their voices, sometimes carrying a small table with them,
and frequently selling their wares by auction. So, too, we observe coffee-sellers, water-bearers, nargileh-hawkers, and others,
elbowing their way, landing their commodities, and escaping
accidents almost by a miracle. One of the noisiest frequenters of
the bazaars is the Jamil, or auctioneer, who carries on his head or
shoulders the goods he is instructed to sell, and runs up and down
the lanes shouting'liartty, hurtig', and adding the amount of the
last bid he has received. However great the confusion may be, his
practised ear instantly detects each new bid issuing from one of
the dukkans, and he immediately announces the new oiler--'bi'ishrin { tin-W,'bi'islwin u nug', and so on. The seller of the goods
always accompanies the dallal to give his consent to the conclusion
of the transaction.

It is hardly possible to give the traveller any idea of the prices
of the various commodities, as they depend on the demand, which
is greater in winter than in summer, and also on the character of
the seller and the demeanonr of the purchaser. We may also
mention that many so-eil Oriental articles, particularly silks
and woollen stuffs, are now manufactured of inferior materials by
European firms, and exported to Egypt. Some articles again, such
as rugs and hangings, please the eye amid their native surroundings, but are rarely suitable for European rooms; while others are
more advantageously purchased in most European capitals than
from the Oriental merchants themselves, with whom bargaining
is difficult and troublesome. So-sit antiquities are largely sold
at the hotels at exorbitant prices, far exceeding their true value,
and many of them are even specially manufactured for the purpose.
Caution in making a purchase is far more requisite in the East than
in Lumpe, as Orientals regard skill in cheating simply as adesirahle
aeemnplishment. Those who purpose making large purchases had
hotter defer doing so until they have gained a little experience ofthe
national peculiarities, and they should in no case rely on the reconnnemlations or advice of commissionnaires and persons of a






