' Bazaars. CAIRO. 3. Route. 253

similar class (comp. p. 233). Natives of the country may often
be consulted with advantage as to prices, but the traveller must
be prepared to pay more than persons familiar with the language
and customs.

The following description of the city is so arranged that even a newcomer will have little difficulty in finding his way without any other
guide. If, however, time be limited, the traveller is recommended to
get a commissionnaire or local dragoman (p.233), to show him the bazaars
in the following order.

The Muski, with its E. continuation the Rue Neuve, is the
chief thoroughfare of Cairo, nearly l M. in length, and runs in a
nearly straight direction from W. to E., from the Ezbekiyeh place
to the tombs of the hhalifsi This street, the beginning of which
has frequently been sketched by European artists, has now to a great
extent lost its Oriental characteristics, but it still presents many
picturesque and attractive features (comp. p. 244). Among the
shops, many of which present quite a European exterior, are numerous tobacco and cigar stores, emporiums of clothing, and stalls
of fez-makers, with the peculiarly shaped iron they use in their
trade. (The price of a fez or tarbfish varies from 2 fr. to 15 fr.
according to the material with which it is lined.)

On entering the Muski we observe on the right, above us, an
Arabian school (p. 250). We ascend the street to a small place
called the Rand-Point (Pl. c, 3). Immediately before this place is
reached, we diverge to the right, and follow the first lane to the
left (running parallel with the Muski), passing a red and yellow
mosque on the right, and disregarding the attraction of the European glass wares sold here. Pursuing a straight direction Li.e., as
straight as the crooked lanes admit of), we pass the end of a narrow lane on the right, through which we perceive the entrance to
an uninteresting Greek church, and the covered entrance to a bazaar
lately burned down, on the left. Turning to'the right, we next
enter the Mils el-Ijamzawi (PI. o, 2, 3), or bazaar of the Christian
merchants (Syrians and Copts), who vie with their Mohammedan
fellow-tradesmen in the exorbitance of their demands, and whose
chief wares are European calico, porcelain, and drugs (which last
are sold at all the bazaars). Near the end of this street, a little
before its junction with the broader street El- Ghariyeh (see below),
we observe on the right the $ 111; eI-'Atté.rin, or spice-market, which
is easily distinguished by its aromatic odOurs. The perfumes of
Arabia, genuine and adulterated, Wax-candles, and drugs are the
chief commodities here. Attar of roses is sold by weight at high
prices. The small bottles into which it is put have very narrow
necks, through which one drop at a time only can pass. Customers
should of course see that the bottles are accurately weighed beforehand.

leyond the'Attérin Bazaar (still keeping the El-GUriyeh carriage way on our left) we next enter its continuation, the Sill: el


