254 Route 3. CAIRO. Bazaars.

Fahhami (literally, coal-market; P ]. D, l), the bazaar for wares
from Tunis and Algiers. We first observe drug-stalls, and then
magazines of light-coloured woollen and other stuffs, which, however, are imported from Nimes and other places in Southern France,
being now seldom or never manufactured at Tunis.

Pursuing the same direction, parallel with the lCl-Ghfiriyeh
street, and passing a number of shoemakers' stalls [ bawabishiL we
come to a broader covered passage (exactly opposite which is a
modern okella, presenting no attraction), which we follow to the right
for a few paces. and then take the first lane to the left. At the end
of this lane lies a more open spot where undressed wool is exposed
for sale. Lower down, a little to the left, we reach the Sukkariyeh,
or bazaar for sugary dried fruits (nuki) and similar wares. Adjoining it is the Gami' el-Jluuiyuzl fp. 272'), now undergoing restoration, while facing us, at the end of the street, rises the handsome
Bc'ib ez-Zutc2leh (see p. 279), or Jlutawelli. Opposite the outside
of the gate is a house with a large grated window, and in the corner is a column built into the wall, at which executions by strangulation formerly took place. In a straight direction we next enter
the Shoemakers' Bazaar, formerly a school, an interesting building,
the first story of which overhangs the lower and is home by large
brackets. The large gateway (on the right) is still preserved; part
of the interior has been altered, while the rest of it is in a dilapidated condition. - The same street then passes the stalls of the tent
and flag-makers, and leads to the Boulevard Jfolutmmerl'Ali Cp) W) ),
at the W. end of which are the mosques of Sultan 1) n the
left, before this last is reached, is the entrance to the once celebrated Siiig es-Seliéha "E, 2), or bazaar of the arlnourers, now
reduced to three or four miserable stalls, where European weapons
are sold. Keeping to the left, we traverse several crooked lanes
and reach the Sebil Mohammed'Ali (see below) in the Ghnriyeh
street. This last digression, however, is uninteresting.

We return from the Shoemakers' Bazaar to the Bab ez-Zuwcleh,
before reaching which we pass the unattractive Saddlers' Bazaar
(Stilt cs-Surfigiych), and a police-office at the corner to the right.
We now follow a broader street, the first part of which is called
the Sukkariyeh (see above). Beyond the Sebil Mohammed'Ali this
street is named El-Ghiiriyeh from the mosque erected by Sultan
_ -hi'n-i (p. 274), the small minaret of which, with its domes,
rises nearly in the middle 01' the street.

We follow this street in a straight direction nearly as far as the
post of the (lower) sentry on the left, a little before reaching whom
we turn to the right into the Shl.r es-stdin, or bazaar for Wares
from the.,% ilin, consisting of chests, gum, Mms-palm nuts, illlanned tiger skins, etc. (see p. 236). Farther on, in a straight
din-I'tinn, are the stalls of the Booksellers and Bookbinders.



