Bazaars. CAIRO. 3. Home. 255

Most of the booksellers are also scholars, but they are not so fanatical
as their brethren of Damascus, who sometimes decline to sell their books
to Christians. Seated on their niastabas are frequently to he found various other members of the learned, or would-be learned, world, who
spend whole days here in interminable colloquies. Some of the booksellers sell those works only which they have themselves published,
while others keep an assortment of books from the printing-less of
13131531: and others (p. 2911). As the prices vary greatly in accordance with
the demand and other circumstances, and there is no such thing as a
fixed publishing price, purchasers should always endeavour to ascertain
beforehand the true value of any work they wish to buy. As in the
case of many other wares, the line between new and second-hand books
is not so strictly drawn in the East as in Europe. The booksellers generally keep catalogues, several feet in length, to refresh their memories
regarding the state of their stock. The Koran, which is shown very rm
lnctantly to non-Muslims, is generally kept under lock and key, or at
least separate from the other books. The books are not arranged side
by side as in European shops, but piled up in a very inconvenient fashion.
Many of them are sold in loose sheets, in which case the purchaser
should see that the work is complete, as gaps are of frequent occurrence.
The bindings usually consist of leather and pasteboard. Valuable books
are often kept in cases of red sheepskin, out of which they are drawn by
means of a loop. - The workmanship of the bookbinders, who like other
Oriental artisans work in the open street, is generally cheap and durable.
Red is their favourite colour.

At the point where the street expands a little, before reaching
the handsome W. entrance of the El-Azhar mosque (p. 287), we
observe several houses with picturesque mushrebiyehs (p. 181).
The next lane to the left leads us across the Rue Name, the prolongation of the Muski (passing a large new school at the corner to
the right), towards the large new minaret of the llasanén Mosque
(p. 2000. Opposite to it, on the left, is a gateway through which
we enter the Khan el-Khalili (1'1. 0, 2), which once formed the
centre of the commercial traffic of Cairo. This building, which is
said to have been founded so early as the end of the 13th cent. on
the site of ruined tombs of the Khalifs by El--Ashraf Salaheddin
Khalil (1290--93), one of the Be ] tte Mameluke sultans, forms a
distinct quarter of the city, and is intersected by a main street and
numerous cross--lanes, formed by long rows of stalls of tradesmen
and artizans, all covered overt This is the headquarters of the silk
and carpet merchants and the vendors of trinkets.

The usual price of a light kefl'iyeh (shawl for the head) is 12-14 re,
and of one of heavier quality, with red and yellow stripes and interwoven
with gold thread, 20-25 fr. The fringes are generally loosened and
adjusted after the completion of the purchase. Many of the so-called
Damascene silks, and particularly the lighter kefTtyehs in pleasing colours, are manufactured at Lyons and Crefeld. The table-covers of red,
blue, or black cloth, embroidered with coloured silk [ 35-100 fr.), are well
worthy of notice. The letters with which they are adorned rarely have
any meaning.

The Khan Khalili contains two large CARPET Bananas, one
(the smaller) immediately to the right of the entrance (see above),
and the other at the W. end, to the left, a little before we reach
the broader and better lighted Silk en-Nahhasin (p. 206). The
latter of these two bazaars, established in the court of a building








