256 Route 3. CAIRO. Rumors. I

in the early Arabian style, is a favourite subject with European

artists.

The prices of the carpets, like those of other Oriental goods, are
liable to great fluctuation. Those of Baghdad and Brussa (in Asia Minor)
are the most sought after, but imitations, manufactured at Brussels, are
said to be not uncommon. They are chiefly remarkable for the barmonious arrangement of their colours. As soon as a purchaser appears,
the dealers spread their wares over the whole court for his inspection.
If the traveller is pressed for time he had better not attempt to make a
purchase, as several hours must not unfrequently be spent in negociation
before a satisfactory bargain is concluded.

Leaving this court, we cross the fihlli en-Nahhésin (see below)
in a somewhat oblique direction, and pass through a very insigniticant gate into the St }; es- $ eigh (pl. Siyttgh), or bazaar of the gold
and silversmiths, which consists of several crooked lanes, barely a
yard in width, through which the traveller will sometimes find it
difficult to thread his way. The occupants of these crowded alleys
keep their wares in glass cases or under glass shades. Their stalls
present a very poor appearance, but their filagree-work is sometimes very good. Spurious gold and silver wares are not unfrequently
sold as genuine. The bellows of the Silversmith are generally of
amusingly primitive construction, consisting of a conical bag of
goatskin, open at one end, where it is provided with wooden
handles, and terminating at the other end in a tube, usually an
old gun-barrel, which runs under a small mound of clay to the fire.

The finest ninety-carat silver, which is never sold except in its native
condition, is frequently purchased with a view to the manufacture of plate
and trinkets in the house of the purchaser himself and under his immediate
supervision, in order that all possibility of fraud may be obviated. The
finest quality manufactured at the shops is the eighty-carat silver, the
workmanship bestowed on which is usually worth a quarter to ahalftlle
value of the raw material; the next quality is the seventy-five carat; and,
lastly, there are inferior qualities containing fifty per cent. or less of pure
silver. The silver manufactured at the shops ought to bear a government stamp, indicating the number of carats it contains. As soon as a
standard of price is agreed on, the article is paid for in accordance with
its weight in dirhem tdrechms), and with its assay as stated by the seller.
The .quality or the metal is then attested by a government official, who
is always in attendance. and the article is taken to the customs-office,
where a duty is exacted from the purchaser. The whole transaction is
therefore of a somewhat complicated character, and the formal attestation by the official atl'ords no guarantee whatever of the true quality of
the metal. The only satisfactory plan is to purchase the raw material,
and. like the natives of the Country get it manufactured under one's
persona ] Superv'sion.

In the Jewish quarter, to the w. of the Sill; e "tigh, are the booths
of the Jewellers ftrt7haeyiyeh), where, however, there is nothing to see, as
they show their wares to intending purchasers only.

From this labyrinth of lance we return to the Stilr en-Nahhasin.
or market of the copper-smiths, immediately to the left of which
are the imposing facades of several contiguous mosques, the first
two of which contain the tombs of Sultan Jy'alafin and his son Mohammad cn-N sir (p. 277). This bazaar presents little attraction,.
but one of the Arabian copper ink-bottles [ tluwuychg 4-10 fr.,
according to the style of the engraving with which they are


































