Bazaars. CAIRO. 3. Route. 257

adorned) may be purchased as a souvenir. Several pipe-makers

(shib hi) are also established here.

The chief occupation of the pipe-makers is the boring of pipe » stems.
Their primitive apparatus consists of an instrument resembling a bow
with which they turn a wooden cylinder terminating in an iron spike.
The string of the how is pressed against the wood, and the how is moved
to and fro, somewhat like that of a violin, so as to turn the borer. Notwithstanding the simplicity of this tooL and although they merely steady
the stem with their hands, they execute their work with surprising rapidity and accuracy .---- The same kind of implement is used by the
turners. The wood on which they are working is secured on two nails
in two parallel upright pieces of wood and turned with the bow with
the right hand, while the work is done with a chisel held in the left.

Leaving the bazaars for a short time, we may now turn to the
right, and follow the broad, newly constructed street to the Bét e1Kadi [ PL 2), or'House of the Judge". The appointment of ram is
made by the government at Constantinople, and is usually bestowed
on favourites, as it is said to be a very lucrative post. In the large
court on the right is an open verandah, resting on columns with
early Arabian capitals (takhtu bésh; p. 186). Part of the building
still dates from the time of Saladin (1193). Within the building.
the entrance to which consists of an open verandah, the high holds
his court on Thursdays. This court was formerly the supreme tribunal of the country, but its jurisdiction is now limited to cases in
which the law laid down by the Koran is to be administered, and
particularly to actions between married persons. The large extent
to which the court is patronised shows that polygamy is not particularly conducive to domestic harmony.

Crossing the court, and passing through the gate opposite, we
next follow the windings of the narrow lane to the left as far as a
sentry posted by the Game"'L'csuf Gumati.

[ To the right of this mosque begins the street called Gameliyeh,
leading to the Bib en-Nap (p. 280). It consists of a number of
large warehouses (okellas; p. 251), and is the headquarters of the
Red Sea trade.'

The staple commodities here are gums, coffee, mother-of-pearl, tortoiseshell, skins, ostrich-feathers, wax, incense, attar of roses, and various
essences, the ports from which they are brought being Jeddt 1101mm,
'Aden, let' Berbern. Masauuf Souukin, and Kt F.

As we shall have to traverse the Gamel'iyeh on our way to the
Tombs of the Khelifs, we need not now visit it ]

Where the street divides, beyond the above-mentioned sentry,
we keep to the left until we regain the Sn ]; en-Nahhasin, near a
fountain (Sebil'Abder-RallmLt Kikhya; p. 279) We then follow
the bazaar-street to the right to the Bab el-Ftiti1h (p. 280), and
proceed thence to the left to the line Neuve (Huski, 112'3.

The above-named bazaars are the most important at Cairo, the
others being unattractive We may, however, add the names of
some of the other trades, as given by hlr. Lane :---- Tagir, cloth
and stuff merchants; khmdugi, dealers in iron goods and small
wares; khuiyfit, tailors; snbbfzgh, dyers; reffa, sroekitrg-uurkers;
s Egypt I. 2nd Ed. 17



