253 Route 3. CAIRO. citiycz.
ltabbék, embroiderers and silk-lace makers; ralcytd, manufacturers
of silk braid; myth, druggists and perfumers; dakhéklmi, tobacconists; fiikihdni, fruiterers; zeiydt, oil-merchants, who also sell
butter, cheese, honey, ctc.; lthuglari, vegetable dealers; gezzdr,
butchers; (p. 258), which is
intersected by broad and shadeless streets bearing French names,
is the
Place Ezbekiyeh (1'1. C, c, :3), or simply the Ezbckfyeh, which
is named after the heroic Emir Ezbek, the general of Sultan
Knit Bey (p. 968 ], who brought the general and son-in-law of llajesidl. asa captive to Cairo. A mosque was erected here in honour
of his victory; and, though the building no longer exists, its name
still attaches to the site. This was once the focus of the Oriental
traffic of Cairo, but the native industries have gradually to a great
extent been absorbed by EurOpeans. The principal hotels, several
of the consulates, numerous cafes, palatial dwelling-houses, handsome shops, and the theatres are situated in this magnificentpluce,
in the centre of which are Pleasure Grounds, with the luxuriant
vegetation peculiar to the marvellous climate of Egypt. The gardens afford a delightful promenade, especially in the afternoon,
and also present a very attractive appearance by gaslight. They
were laid out in 1870 by M. Barillet (p. 76). 70), formerly chief
gardener to the city of Paris. They are octagonal in shape, and
cover an area of 201/2 acres; the walks are altogether 11/2 M. in
length. The gardens contain a variety of rare and beautiful trees
and shrubs, and the open spaces are planted with the Lippia nadiflom, to supply the place of grass, which does not thrive in this
dry climate. The grounds are open to the public in the forenoon,
but in the afternoon a charge of 10 paras silver (no change given)
is made for admission. An Egyptian band, which generally performs European music, plays here daily from 5 to about 8 p.m.
Among the other attractions of the place are several cafes, a theatre, where Italian comedies are performed in summer (p. 233 ], a
French restaurant, where a good supper is proeurable, and a photographer's studio. An artificial hill with a belvedere commands
a fine view, and below it is a pretty grotto. The garden was at first
visited almost exclusively by Europeans, but it is gradually becoming the fashion for Arabs to send their veiled wives and their
children to promenade here, while the Europeans of the better
classes now treat it with unreasonable neglect. The trees, shrubs,
and flowers thrive admirably, the greatest show of blossom being






