. our Town. 09.1110. 3. Home. 259
in May and June. Invalirls who spend the winter in Cairo for the
sake of their health will find these beautiful grounds a very pleasant resort, though they should be careful to leave them before Sundown, after which the air here is very damp.

Similar gardens. but of smaller extent, have been laid out by M. Balillet at Gezhreh (p. 3281, in the island of { men (p. 318). at Shubra
(.11 33L), at Kubbeh. (p. 332), and at Gizeh (p. 311). The present superintendent of gardens is M. Delchevallerie. - Private gardens of 111. Cieco-.
lani, see p.

The New Town of Isma'iliya was begun about the year 1805,
when the Khedive presented sites here gratuitously to any one who
would undertake to erect on each a house worth at least 30,000 fr.
within eighteen months. Most of the houses are architecturally
uninteresting, but there is a fair sprinkling of handsome buildings.

At the end of the Muski, on the left, is the small place named
Atab el-Kaclm CPI. c, Pi). It was formerly adorned with an equestrian statue of Ibrahim Pasha, but this was removed during the revolution of 1882 and is now in the magazine of the 1311151; Museum.
On the W. side of the place is the International Tribunal Pl. 99,
C 4; p. 7), beyond which is the Theatre ancais Jr. 9). 98). On
the S. side of the Ezbekiyeh is the Opera House (H.713), and to the
right of it (W., the ponderous New Hotel (Pl. a). Opposite, on the
W. side of the Ezbekiyeh, is a large house belonging to Sign. Matatia, the banker, built in the Louis XV. style, and let out in quartie1 .5 To the W. of the New Hotel are the German Church (Pl.10)
and the English Church (PL 8), which still lacks its spire. Still
farther to the W. is the residence of M. Delort, the banker, in the
early Arabian style, the interior of which, partly fitted up with
relics from old Arabian houses, is worthy of a visit. The ministerial
offices and several palaces of the Khedive,' including the Palm's
Abidin (thi, built in the form of a horse- shoe, are also situated
in this new quarter of the city. Opposite the Palais'Abidin is the
thin ei- Br 25f, or government office for mosques and other ecclesiastical property. The consulates are also all in this neighbourhood (comp. p. 232' ]. Near the French consulate (Pl. 19; C, 5)
is the house of Count St. Maurice, in the Arabian style, now occupied by the French consul-general. The palaces of the Egyptian
grandees are generally enclosed by high walls, so that only the roofs
are visible to passers-by. Some of them will be briefly mentioned
when we have occasion to pass them (pp. 12117, 341).

It need hardly be added that the traveller in search of Oriental
scenes will not care to devote much time to this modern and almost
entirely European quarter, but will hasten to make acquaintance
with the Arabian parts of the city








