260 Route 3. Glimi'SuanHas.

Southern Quarters. Boulevard Mohammad rAli. Grime" Sultan

tlasun. Citadel, (himi' Mohammad (Ali. Chtmir Samheddin IYtsu/'

mid Suttmtttt Pasha. Joseph's Well. Grimi' ibn Tum", Knit Bey,

and Neidiyeh Zénab. Vieeroyal Library at Derb el-Gama'm'iz. Mon
astery of Dervishes in the Hubbaniyeh. Bdb ez--Zuwéleh. Gtsmit
el-JIuaiyud. dei'el-Ghl'lri.

Starting from the Place Atab c1-Kadra, between the Muski and
the lizbekiyeh (see above), the Boulevard Mohammed'Ati, 18603113.
in length, leads straight to the foot of the citadel. At the end of
this long street is the Place Sultan [ lasan [ P ]. 19,2), with two
large mosques. That on the left is the Mmi: RH yeh (P1. 59),
named after an order of dervishes (p. 150), and erected entirely
at the expense of the mother of the ethcdive Isma'il, but still
unfinished. On the right, adjoining the Place ltuméleh, rises the'" NHtmir Sultan Hasan (P1. All), the'superb mosque', and the
finest existing monument of Arabian architecture. It was begun
in the year 757 of the llcgira (Al). 1356), and completed in three
years by Melik en-Nz'tsir Ahn'l-Ma'ali llasan ibu lfalafin, but is
now in a neglected and dilapidated condition.

Sultan (Insult. the sixth son of Sultan Nts.sir (p. 277), was still a minor
when he ascended the throne in A.D. 1346. At the end of the vigorous
reign of Nfisir (d. 1341), which lasted 43 years, the Mamelukes and emirs
ruvnlled, and the state of anarchy which now ensued was farther aggravated by the prevalence of the plague or'black death' (131849), which
exterminated whole families, whose property was immediately seized by
the government. Mahrizi (p. 242), with the usual exaggeration of Orientals,
record: that no fewer than 15-20,000persons died at Cairo in a single day.
After having been dethroned in 1351, Hasan regained possession of his
sceptre three years later, but in 1361 he was again dethroned and assassinated.

The lofty walls with their shallow niches, pierced with six
or seven windows one above the other, the huge gateway (see below), and the S. minaret which is still preserved, present a majestic appearance, especially now that the incongruous additions
of later date have been removed. The building is in the form of an
irregular pentagon, on the E. side of which the minaret: and the
mausoleum (see below) form symmetrical projections. The windows
in the side are disposed somewhat irregularly, and the wall terminates in a broad cornice. The angles of the edifice are embellished
with columns built into the wall, with a wreath of pendentives or
'stalactites' at the top, forming to some extent a new order of capital.

According to the legend, Sultan Hasan, after the completion of
the work, ordered the architect's hands to be cut off, in order that he
might not erect a second building of equal splendour. (Similar
myths in various parts of Europe record that architects have been
blinded from the same motive.) The mosque of Hagan has always
lien tlm chief rallying point of the ringleaders ofinsnrrections
and all kinds of public demonstrations.

Hue of the Minute", as Mahrizi informs us, was overthrown by











