262 Route 3. mum. Citadel.



are very characteristic examples of Arabian architecture. Over the
entrance to the principal dome is inscribed the date 7154 of the
llegira (11.1). 1363).

The interior of the mosque is cruciform, and the four arms of
the cross are roofed with lofty, pointed vaulting. lit the SE. arm
is the Liwfin el-Ufimi' (Pl, tol, or Sanctuary, with a stone Mamba;
(Pl. 11), from which the sultan sometimes addressed the people.
The frieze is embellished with a finely executed Cutie inscription.
Numerous lamps hang from the ceiling. To the right of the mambar
is the entrance (P1. 13) to the Maltsi'tra. li), an interesting
and majestic structure, which has been recently restored; it is covered with a dome, 180 ft. in height, and contains the Tomb of
Sultan Hasan. The pendentives in the corners, which are still
partly preserved, betray the influence of the classical style.
Around the walls runs a frieze with texts from the Koran in large
letters intertwined.

On leaving this mosque, we proceed to the E. (right) to the
circular Place Ruméleh, from which the Mecca pilgrimage starts
(p. 238), and to the Place Méhémet Ali (Menshiyeh Gedideh, or
New Place), formerly called the Kuromédun, on the S. side of the
Ruméleh. From the li. side of the Ruméleh a broad carriage-road,
passing two mosques (on the left: the Game! Malmtftdi, Pl. 5?,
and beyond it the dei' fAbdetralnudn, Pl. 41, with a decaying
minaret), and affording a view of the Tombs of the Khalifs to the
left, ascends in windings to the Citadel. A shorter and steeper
route, which may be ascended on donkey-hack, diverges to the
right near the beginning of the carriage-road, passing through the
Bz'tb el-Azab, flanked with its huge towers. It was in this narrow
and crooked lane, enclosed by lofty walls, and formerly the chief
approach to the citadel, that the massacre of the Mamelukes took
place on 15t March 1811 by order of Mohammed'Ali (p.106).
Amin Bey, the only one who survived, effected his escape by
making his horse leap into the moat, through a gap in the wall.

The Citadel JI-Nara; H. F, G, f, 2), which should be visited repeatedly for the sake of the view, was erected in 1166 by
Salaheddi11 (p. 249'), with stones taken from the small pyramids at
Uizeh, the site having been selected, according to Arabian historians, owing to the fact that meat could be kept fresh here twice
as long as in any other part of Cairo. Although the fortress commands the city, its site is unfavourable in respect that it is itself
completely commanded by the heights of the Molmttam, rising
above it immediately to the S; thus in 18113 Mohammed'Ali was
enabled, by means of a hattory planted on the Gebel Giyuishi
(11. 3'13?) |, to compel Khurshid Pasha to surrender the Citadel.

We enter the inner court of the Citadel by the IMI, (inn: J, and traversing a walled passage, we observe on a

terrace before us the -'








