' dei' 5671 (mum. CAIRO. 3. 205

Ilegira by Sulémfin. the illiuneluke, afterwards Sultan Selim. The
architecture is a mixture of Arabian and Turkish, but the plan is rather
Byzantine in character. The mosque is small, but carefully executed.
It contains Cutie inscriptions, marble mosaics, and a mambar in marble.

Route from the Citadel to the Molt-attain and to the Petrified

Forest, see p. 336.

On the W. side of the Place Mc'hc'met Ali (9. 262) is the railway-station for Helwan (p. 403). From this point a street called
the Sulibeh runs to the W., traversing the oldest, and now partly
ruined, quarter of Cairo, which was erected by the Tulunides (p.
102), and is almost exclusively inhabited by the lower classes.
About 440 yds. from the Place this street is intersected by another,
running from N. to s, _ the N. (right) part of which is called the
Silifiyeh, and the S. (left) part the Rugbtyeh. At the beginning
of the Siufiyeh, on the right, is a new Arabian Girls' School, and
beyond it, on the same side, is the Tektyet el-v1faulatctpeh (PI. 36;
F. o, where the dervishes perform their dances (p. 239), with
a dome adorned with carefully sculptured arabesques. (This street
terminates in the Boulevard Mohammed'Ali.) At the corner
opposite the mosque is the recently completed Sebil of the Mother
of'Abbés Pasha CPI. 94), in marble, rich and effective in general
appearance, but lacking finish in its details. The large school
above it is hardly worth visiting.

We now proceed in a straight direction to the Place Seiyideh
Zinab, where we show our order of admission at the office of the
Waist. Visitors on foot or on donkey-back follow an attendant with
the key, who leads the way up the direct and somewhat steep path
to the mosque. Those who are driving return to the Sebil of the
Mother of Abbas Pasha and enter the Rngbiyeh street, follow it for
about 300 yds., and turn down a street to the right, in which, after about 130 yds. more, we observe on the right the
*iriunir ibn 1ulun (h 68). This mosque, the oldest in Cairo,
was erected by Abu'l-ehbbts Ahmed Ibn Tulun the independent
governor of Egypt under the suzerainty of Khalif Mn'tamid (A.D.
870-92 ], in the year 265 of the Hegira (A.D. 879), on the once
fortified hill of Kal'at el-Kebsh (see p. 268).

Ahmed ibn Tulan, the founder of the dynasty of the Tulunides (p. 102),
was so successful in war that be extended the boundaries ongypt beyond
Syria and as far as Mesopotamia, but was proclaimed a rebel from the
mambar of every mosque by the Abbaside khalif El-Mu'tamid of Baghdad
(see above), and fell a victim to disease in Syria in A.D. 884.

According to one legend the mosque occupies the spot where Abraham
sacrificed the goat (kebsh) instead of his son whence the eppellahon
l'at l Kehsh Ci, e.,'castle of the goat'). Another legend points to this
as the spot where Noah's ark ran aground on the 10th Moharrem
(p. 236), although the Muslims generally believe that this event took place
on Mt. Jfidi near 1101111 in 511-11 (see p. 143). According to a third
tradition the name is derived from the winding staircase which ascends
the still existing minaret (see below) in the form of a twisted ram's born.

The construction of the edifice, which, as Malirizi informs us






