mun" ibn Talon. came. 3. Route. 267

The Entrance [ P ]. a) to the mosque is on the E. side, and we
reach the interior by traversing the S. part of the Liwan. The
mosque originally had two entrances from each of the three outer
courts (see Plan). The Sahn ol-Crime, which we first enter, is a
spacious quadrangle, 99 yds. square. The dome-covered structure
(O in the centre was destined to be the tomb of the founder;
but, as he died in Syria (see p. 965), it was fitted up as a 1iauefiyeh, or basin for ablution before prayer, and still serves that purpose.

On the N., W., and S. sides of the court of the mosque run
arcades, which were at one time converted into cells for the reception of paupers and cripples. The character of the building, which
must once have presented a very imposing and harmonious appearance, has thus been seriously injured. The Arabian historians
relate that Ahmed was so charmed with the edifice when completed
that he presented the architect with 10,000 dinars, and be is said
to have defrayed the whole of the cost of its construction out of
one of the treasures found by him (p. 103).

The pointed arches of the arcades are slightly depressed, and have
a tendency towards the horseshoe form, a shape which is completely
developed in the lower stories of the minaret (see below). Between
the openings of the arcades are introduced pointed arches or niches,
partly for purposes of support, and partly by way of ornament.
The central pillars, which fell in 1814, once bore marble tablets
with Cutie inscriptions, recording the date of the building of the
mosque, but these have since been destroyed.

The Liwan, or Sanctuary, on the E. side, through which we
have entered the building, contains five series of arcades, and in
each of the other sides of the court there are two series. With a
view to exclude all sound of the outside world, the external wall
of this chamber of prayer was separated from the street by a row
of shops, and the three other sides were isolated by the introduction
of outer courts beyond them, enclosed by lofty walls (see Plan).

All the angles in the interior are filled with columns built into
the walls, extending two-thirds of the way up, without bases, and
with imperfectly defined capitals in plaster. At certain places in
the pillars and the masonry longitudinal beams of wood have been
introduced for the purpose of strengthening the building, but they
are visible only where the external incrustation has fallen off. The
perforated attics, the gratings of stucco, the ornamentation, and
the cutie inscriptions in stucco are all executed in strict conformity
with the Byzantine-Arabian style. In the Kibla (Pl. o, however,
we observe two marble columns with capitals of more pronounced
Byzantine form. The upper part of the niche is adorned with gilded
mosaic, and the lower part with inlaid marble, while above is a
dome with stalactites. The *. LO, a masterpiece of wood-.
carving, was probably restored when the mosque was repaired by
El-Melik ol-Mans) in the year 696 of the Hegira.



