268 Home 3. (1.11110. (mmi' [ ran Hey. I

The roof, with its open timber-work and octagonal recesses, constructed of the trunks of date-palms and overlaid with sycamore
wood, formerly rested on 158 rectangular pillars of brick, coated
with stucco. The friezes, bearing Cutie inscriptions, are also of
sycamore wood.

The outer court on the W. side contains a Sakiyeh (P. O) and
the singular Minaret (Pl. 8), with its external winding staircase,
the design of which is said to have been suggested to 11111111 by a
strip of paper wound round his finger, and which is the only one
of the kind except that of the Mabkhara of the Game Hakim

p.270). The minaret commands a good survey of the oldest buildings of Cairo, but, owing to its ruinous condition, the ascent is now
prohibited. (Fee to the attendant who shows the L111 an 1- 2 piastrcs).

Outside the entrance to the mosque we turn to the right, and
then to the right again. Passing the S. side of the mosque, where
we observe several handsome mushrebiyehs on the left side of the
street, and turning a little to the left, we traverse several lanes and
alleys, built on what was formerly the hill of Kal'at el-Kebsh
(p. 265), and reach the small, but once handsome
Gami' Knit Bey CPI. 48), which, like most of the buildings of
its period, long lay in a neglected condition, and was only lately
saved from complete ruin. This mosque was erected in the 15th
cent. and in plan resembles the Tomb of Kait Bey (p. 286).

Kaid or Edit Bey (1168 96) was one of the last independent Mameluke
sultans of Egypt. Both as a general and a diplomatist he successfully
maintained his position against the Ports (Sultans Mohammed and Bajazid),
and even inflicted serious losses on the Turks but the refractory ane
lukes obstructed his undertakings and in 1496 compelled him to abdicate
in favour of his son Muhammed a boy of fourteen.

The door, with its bronze covering, is about 45 ft in height.
The mosque is about 26 yds. in length and 22 yds. in width. The
attics have almost entirely fallen in, but a graceful minaret still
exists. Opposite the lgibla is a gallery, serving as a dikkeh, which
is accessible from the staircase to the minaret. The principal
arches, which approach the horseshoe shape, though distinctly
pointed, are tastefully decorated. The mambar is richly embellished
with wood-carving. The mosaics on the pavement and the walls
are also worthy of notice. Bakshish, 1/2 piastre for each person.

In a small place on the Khalig, or canal traversing the city,
about 550 yds. to the N W. of the mosque of Kait lley, lies the Gami
es- Seiyideh Zénab (PI. 7'), - l' (x, 4), which was begun at the close
of last century, but not completed until after the hem ]: invasion
(in the year of the Ilegira 1210), and which has been recently enlarged. The mosque, richly embellished with ancient columns, contains the tomb oi'rh'uuO, daughter oflmim'Ali, and granddaughter
of the l' the Prophet (her mulid, see p. 237), consisting of a sarcophagus,
enclosed by a bronze railing, with a lofty dome above it (shown by
special permission only )--Outside the mosque, to the right of
the entrance, Is the sarcophagus of another Mohammedan saint.



