Library. CAIRO. 3. Route. 269

A long series of tortuous streets, called Derb el-fr" anttnth,
C'syearnore street'), running not far from the canal, leads hence
towards the N. to the Boulevard Alche'met Ali. After fully half-amile we come to a small open space by the canal, shaded by some
fine acacias. The gate 011 the right leads to the viceroyal $ Library
(Kutubkhcinch, P1. 30), founded by the Khedive Ismail Oil 24th
March 1870, in the left wing of the office of the minister of public
worship. The collection consists of a number of books formerly
preserved in various other institutions, and of others purchased or
presented by the Khedive, and is dedicated to the use of the public.
One of the finest presentations to the collection is the valuable
library of Mustafa Pasha, which occupies a separate room. The
whole library consists of about 25,000 vols., chiefly Arabic and
Turkish works, and there is a small European department, principally containing scientific works in French, which is to be gradually extended. The library is open to the public from 3 to G and
from 7 to IO o'clock by Arabian time, Le. about three hours in the
forenoon and three hours in the afternoon, and the officials are
instructed to afford visitors all the information in their power.
Books must be consulted in the reading-room, the use of which
is accorded to persons provided with a permission from the ministry
of public instruction or with a certificate from their consul, hearing their names, and available for a year. The library is closed on
Fridays; and during the month of Ramadan it is open in the
afternoon only. The chief credit of arranging and increasing this
fine collection of books belongs to two Germans, Dr. Stern and Dr.
Spitta-Bey (d. 1883), but the present director is an Arab shékh,
named Murad Effendi.

The liberality with which the treasures of Muslim literature are thus
thrown open to the European public is deserving of all praise. A special feature of the library, possessed by no other Oriental collection
available to Frank-s, consists of the illusulzif, or copies of the 11011111,
collected from various mosques of Cairo, and now preserved from destruction. They are remarkable for their large size, superb execution,
and great age, and constitute the finest existing specimens 0111111111111 11-h

The oldest specimen of the Koran is one in the Cufic, or early Arabian,
character, 12 inches in length, and 83/1 inches in width. It contains onehalf of the 1101311 only, and is in a very damaged condition, having,
moreover, once been injured by fire. The titles of the siirebs are bordered
with gold, and the carefully written text illuminated with coloured letters.
According to the testimony of a shékh who saw the'noble book' in
its perfect condition this Koran was written by Ga'far es- deik, son of
Mohammed er. Bath, son of'Ali Zen el-'Abidin, son of IIusen, son of'Ali,
son of Abu Talib and son- in- Jaw of the Prophet. This Gaffer was a great
chemist and scholar, whose pupil Tartusi, according to Ibn Khallikuu
ct, ed. of Bulak), once stated that he had Written about 500 different
pamphlets. He lived in the years 80-148 of the Hegira, and this Kori"
would thus be about 1150 years oN. There is considerable doubt as to
the accuracy of this story, but the MS. is certainly of very early date.

The other fine large copies of the Koran, about twenty' in all, are of later
origin, most of them having been executed by order of the sultans of the
Bahrite Mamelukes (12601382) and of the Circassian Mamelukes (1382-1516),
while a few of them date from the still later period of the Osman Sultans.






