10 STEAMROATS.

coast lies on the left. Arrival at Corfu on Sunday at men, and halt
of 4-5 hours; arrival at Alex; whim generally about 411.111. 011 Wednesday. - FROM ALEXANDRIA to Trieste every Tuesday at 4 pam;
arrival at Trieste on Sunday at Fin. - Fares to Alexandria: ist
class 80 (1.. in gold. The journey may be broken
at any of the intermediate ports.

FROM VENICE AND BRINDISI to Alexandria. The steamers of
the Peninsular and Oriental Company leave Venice every Thursday
afternoon, touch next morning at Ancona, and on Sunday morning
at llrindisi, where they receive the English mails for India (arriving
from London via Paris and Turin in 56 hrs.) They then leave
Brindisi at I a.m. on Monday for Alexandria, where they generally
arrive on Thursday. - 1911011 ALEXANDRIA to Brindisi the departures take place on Thurs, l'rid., Sat., or Sun., 36 hrs. after the
arrival of the Indian mail in Suez, notice of which is given at the
post-office .--The fare to Alexandria, either from Venice or Brindisi, is 12t. for the 1st cabin and 91. for the 2nd cabin, so that passengers embarking at Venice effect a considerable saving.

FROM MARSEILLES AND NAPLES. Vessels of tho Messriyeries
Jlurilimes leave Marseilles every Thursday about noon, arrive at
Naples on Saturday morning, start again after a halt of some hours,
and arrive atAlexandria on Wednesday about 5 p.m. On the voyage
from Marseilles to Naples these vessels pass through the Strait of
liunifaeio, but on the return-voyage they steer round Capo Corso in
order to avoid adverse currents. In quitting the harbour at Naples
the passenger enjoys a delightful view in fine weather. On the
voyage out the vessel passes through the Strait of Messina at night.
--l'non ALEXANDRIA to Naples and Marseilles every Tuesday at
o a.m. On Friday about noon the vessel sights the Calabrian
coast with the Cape Spartivento, and to the W. the pyramidal
(Etna, which is covered with snow until summer. It then steers
through the Strait of Messina on the It. side. commanding a view
of the beautiful promontory ol' Aspromonte on the right; towards
evening it passes close to the island of Stromboli, and next day
(Saturday) arrives at Naples about'21) .m .--Fares from Marseilles
to Alexandria 375 and 250 fr.; from Naples 275 and 1751 fr.

"t'aldl'fi these stcamhoats may he mentioned those of the Italian
tioctr.TI Funtro-ltcnATrssu, which ply between Genoa. Leghorn, Naples,
Mum-inn. and Alexandria unce weekly (leaving Alexandria on Saturdays),
and those of the French firm Fruissrsm' d: Co. which ply between Murmsilles, and Alexandria. twice monthly. The fares are about
one-third lower than those above mentioned. The departures are adverllRl'l ] at the huh-ls of the (liiTercnt ports.

The ltl'smax nnd EGYPTIAN STE/tunes, the former of which are
tulurahly comfortable, ply between Alexandria and the eastern parts
""H' is! I'lflll e:. i'nn'ltantinuple), and are not. recommended to urdirary
urea and departures advertised at the hotels--ENGLISH
Fm IIdIT Bream-ms, with accommodation for a few passengers. ply between

Alexandria an! l.i" thorn at irregular intervals, which may he ascertained
M the Alexandr-ran: weuey, Messrs. J, Moss ('0.













