zbrrwy. CAIRO. 3. Route. 271

mushaf of Saffya. mother of Sultan Muhammed Khan, who caused fiftytwo copies to be written by Mohammed ibn Ahmed tel- [ 1710111 el Tebi'izi.
It dates from 03.8 and measures it by 91/3 inches. In it, as in one of the
other copies a black line alternates with a gilded one and the first few
pages are very beautifully executed. A copy of HusEn-Bey Jrhemasht2vyi,
211/2 by 163/; inches, is written in a smaller character

The library also boasts of many other valuable horans, chiefly written
in the Persian character. One of these. 171/2 by 12 inches presented by
an Indian hokmdar to the Khedive, has a Persian commentary written in red
between the lines of the text, and is beautifully illuminated at the beginning
and at the end. Another gift' of the same donor was the praycrrhouk'Dnltix'l etEhairslt', written on a golden ground. and furnished with a Persian translation. There is also a Koran about 9 inches only in length illuminated
with gilded flowers and dating from the year 1109 of the Hegira. It was
written by Mohammed Huh Allah, and contains the thirty different parts
of the Koran on thirty pages. Each line begins with um um, the first
letter of the Ambit: alphabet - a most laborious performance. Another
Koran. once the property of the Sultan Elga Elyusfi, measuring 201/1 by
10 inches, is written in two dilfe1enthaudur1t1nus the larger being named
Thulnthi. and the smaller Neshi. The highest efforts of Arabian calligraphy
and illumination are also displayed in several Mughrebin HS and in a.
number of single leaves bearing texts from the Koran or savings of the
prophet.

The ancient Muslims bestowed the utmost care on these precious
copies of the Kori'w, and their descendants still entertain profound
veneration for the sacred volume sent from heaven. The library possesses
many other ancient and valuable MSS. but they are all entirely eclipsed
by these Masahif They possess, however, great interest for the Arabic
scholar, to whom they are willingly exhibited. and form the first collection of the kind in the world. The library is especially rich in numerous
commentaries on the Koran and books containing traditions of the prophet,
as well as works on the law of the four Muslim sects, particularly the
Hanefites and Shife'itest The library likewise contains a number of historical, grammatical, and astrological works, some of which are very
ancient, not a few being in the handwriting of their authors. Among
the poetical 1195. the most important is that of Mutanebbi, dating from
553 of the Hegira, with a commentary by lbn Ginni, who also wrote a
commentary on the Ilamasa. A 111s. entitled'Poems of the Arabs'. dates
from the same year. and among the MSS of the Hamasa is a Moghrebin or
Algerian work, written from the recitation of the best- informed persons',
and dating from 597. There is also an old MS. of the commentary of
llerzuki upon the collection of poems made by him. The fine MS. of
Firdusi, embellished with many coloured illustrations, was presented by
the Shah of Persia. The above enumeration will convey some idea of the
valuable contents of the library, of which at present there is only an Arabic
index, though a French catalogue is now in course of preparation. The
printed books are less numerous than the MSS., and they are chiefly from
the 13mm; press. Some of the surplus copies derived from that source
have been sold by the library.

After visiting the library the traveller may inspect the neighbouring Dervish Monastery in the Habbanfyeh CPI. li; permission
must be procured from the minister of public worship). The monastery was erected in 1174 of the Hegira by Mustafa Agha, vizier
of Sultan Selim. The round sehil is the most interesting object
in the establishment. The building possesses a large court; raised
considerably above the street, and containing a few trees. Around
the court are the cells of the dervishes, and adjoining it is a small

mosque. With regard to the dervishes see p. 100.



