I
272 Route 3. CAIRO. dei' el-Muaiyqa. I

Continuing to follow the same street, we cross the new Boulevard Shikh Riluln, and beyond it the Boulevard Mohammed'Ali
(see p. 260 ]. Beyond the latter we pass an open space, on the
right side of which is the Palace of Mauser Pasha [ 1' ]. 85; unattractive), and enter the street named after the dei' el-Bent,
(P1. 40;'mosque of the girls"), which rises on the right. On the
left, a little beyond the mosque, and on the farther bank of the
canal, is the entrance to the house of Shilkk Mufti, or Shé'kh ut--Islam
(PI. 95), the interesting interior of which is shown by special
permission only (p. 2711). The street then runs on towards the N.,
in a straight direction, and terminates in the Muski, near the HOtel
du Nil o. 231).

If we leave the Palace of Mans) Pasha (see above) on the left,
and follow a lane leading to the SE. (right) corner of the place called
after the old gate Bab el-hhalk, we reach after about 500 paces more
the (left) old towu-gate Bib e1-l" utfih (p. 280) in plan.
The S. side consists of two huge towers; by that to the right are a
number of stone and wooden halls, probably dating from the Nameluke period. Tfimfin Bey, the last of the Circassian sultans of Egypt,
was hanged outside this gate by Sultan Selim IL, on 19th Rabi" clAwwel, 923 of the Hegira (15th April, 1517; p. 213). This gate
is also called Bdb el-Mutawelti, from the old tradition that the most
highly revered saint Ifu.th i el-Mutawelli has his abode behind the
western gate, where he sometimes makes his presence known by a
gleam of light. A beggar who spends the day here endeavours, by
loudly invoking the saint, to excite the compassion of passers-by.
From the inner (E) gate hang bunches of hair, teeth, shreds of
clothing, and other votive offerings placed here by sick persons
who hope thereby to be cured of their diseases.

Passing through the gate, we enter the street called Sultkurlyeh
(p. 254), where on the left we observe the handsome portal of the
Gami' el-Muaiyad (PI. 57), a mosque which is connected with the
gate of the city. The interior is undergoing restoration, and is,
therefore, not easily accessible. This mosque was erected by Sultan
Shékh ehhlahumdi Muaiyad [ 1412-21 ], of the dynasty of the
Circassian Mainelnkes, who had once been the leader of the

+ (fut!) property means pole or axis. This greatest of the Mohammedan
saints is so named because the other wuli's, who are divided into three
classes (haw, p ]. mambo, - negib, p ]. nuguba; bedil, pl. abddl), are considered. as it were, to revolve round him. According to the generally
received belief of the Muslims the favourite abode of this saint is on the
roof of the Ka'ba, but the Egyptians regard the nah ez-Ytuwéleh as at
least his next most favoured dwelling-place, and therefore sometimes call
it the gate of El-Mutnwelli, « fie.'of the reigning l.cu.tb'. The tomb of I
Seyyid Ahmed nl-Bedawi (p. 225; is another resort of the hugh. who of
course can instantaneously transport himself from Mecca to Cairo or
(Elsewhere at pleasure.



