Crtonir el-iUttaipad. CAIRO. 3. Route. 273

rebellion against Sultan Farag (p. 284), and who had been defeated
by the sultan and imprisoned for a time at this spot. The edifice
is also known as the dei' el-A) mar, or the red mosque, from the
colour of its exterior.

Sultan Sllélt'h el-Jltzlmmrli Muaiyad, after having defeated and executed
Sultan Farag, his predecessor, who was the sun emerging. the founder of the
Cireassian Mameluke dynasty of the Burgites (from the Arabic bun-g, or
castle, and so called from their service in fortresses), ascended the throne
in Nov. 1412. His reign was chiefly occupied with victorious campaigns
against his unruly Syrian vessels, in which he was greatly aided by the
military talents of his son Ibrahim. He was a man of weak constitution,
and the early death of Ibrahim is said to have accelerated his end;
while some authors state, on the other hand, that he tensed In him to
be poisoned from jealousy on account of his greater popularity nuniyed
died on 13th Jan. 1421. Although, according to Egyptian historians, he
died very wealthy, his coffers did not contain money enough after his
death to defray the expenses of his funeral, all his property having been
carried off by his emirs, while no one cared for the dead body. Though
successful in his foreign policy, he had neglected to secure the good will
of his people. His emirs were never sure of their lives, many of them
having been imprisoned or executed on mere suspicion. As most of the
public offices were sold to the highest bidder, his subjects were oppressed
and maltreated by his judges and officials, who sought to indemnify
themselves by practising all kinds of extortion. Notwithstanding all
the misfortunes he brought upon Egypt by his maladmiuistration and
cupidity, hluaiyad had no lack of panegyrists, who remembered only that
he was a pious Muslim, that be associated much with scholars, that he
was distinguished as a theologian. an orator, and a poet, and that he had
founded a mosque, a hospital, and a medreseh, or theological school. On
several occasions, after having perjured himself with a view to compass
the destruction of his opponents, he spent several days in a dervish mouastery, attended the mi; _ end lauded the monastery with presents. Like
the dervishes, he usually were nothing but a Woollen robe, and to prove
his humility he commanded the preachers to descend one of the steps of
their pulpits when they had occasion to mention his name. Towards
religionists of other creeds he was intolerant in the highest degree. He
exacted heavy contributions from Christians and Jews, and he re-enacted
and rigorously enforced the sumptuary laws of rOmar (A.D. 634-41),
Mutawakkil (849-50), the Fatimite Khalif Hakim ON-ION; see p. 279),
and Sultan Mohammed en-Nz'tsir (1293-1341; p. 277 ]. Not only were the
colours to be worn by the Christians and Jews prescribed { the costume
of the former being dark blue, with black turbans, and a wooden cross
weighing Ntm. hung round their necks; that of the latter, yellow, with
black turbans, and a black ball hung from their necks); but the fashion
of their dress and length of their turbans, and even the costume of their
women, were so regulated as entirely to distinguish them from the followers
of the prophet.

The handsome bronze gate at the entrance originally belonged

to the mosque of Sultan Hasan o. 260). The plan of the mosque
resembles that of the mosque of'Amr (p, 324); but this edifice is
richer in its details, although without any strongly defined characteristics. Here, too, columns of many different kinds have been
employed. On the right, by the Maksfira, is the mausoleum of the
sultan, and on the left that of his family. The sanctuary is separated
by a railing from the inner court (Salli) cl-Chimp), which is shaded
with acacias and sycamores. The ruins on the S. side are those of
a public bath which was formerly connected with the mosque, but
its plan is scarcely now traceable. The mosque has three minarets,
BAEDEKER'S Egypt l, 2nd Ed. 18



