274 Route 3. CA ] no. (mmi' cL- (ilu'w'i.

two of which rise above the outbuildings of the [ see
above), the city-gate connected with the sacred edifice.

[ Outside the gate, towards the S.li., to the left of the sentry,
is the Derb el-Ahmur, or'red way', recently called Rue de la Citadelle, leading to the Citadel (p. 262). About 450 yds. from the
13511) Mutawelli, by a bend of the road towards the right, rises the
(itimi' el- Werdfini (or Mardt'mi; 1'1. (O), with its graceful minaret.
The court, now closed, and used as a magazine, is adorned with
slender columns and pointed arches ]

Following the Sukkariyeh street to the left (N) for about 100 yds.
more, we observe on the right the modern Sebil of Mohammad'Ali,
in marble (PI. 92), a fountain of pleasing appearance, though
imperfect in its details. To the left, about 270 yds. farther on,
where the street now takes the name of El-Ght'lriyeh (p. 254), we
observe, slightly projecting into the road, the *Gkmir el-Ghiiri
(Pl. 4?), and opposite to it the "" 8ch and Medreseh erected by the
same founder. The two facades, dating from the second half of
the 10th cent. of the Hegira, and presenting a very harmonious
effect, are most interesting. The walls of the interior are adorned
with inlaid figures. A shirt of the Prophet brought by Sultan elGhfiri from Mecca, was formerly shown at this mosque, but it
is now said to be preserved in the Citadel, where it is shown once
annually to the higher government officials only, who have the
privilege of kissing the precious relic. The Sebil and Medreseh
have been skilfully restored by the architect of the Wald, a German
named Franc-my, and are to be extended and adapted to contain
the viceroyal library (p. 269).

Kansuweh el-Gh11pi (1501-16). once a slave of Sultan Knit Boy, was
chosen sultan on 20th April, 1501, ufter tue, Juwnfall ul Tiiriuin Her who
had reigned for one hundred days only. Although upwards of sixty years
of age when he ascended the throne, he still possessed considerable vigour
and energy. He kept the unruly emirs in check, and neutralised the
influence of the elder Namelukes by the purchase of new slaves. Although
himself of servile origin, he "'a as great a lover of splendour as if he
had belonged to a princely family. His stables contained the finest horses
in Egypt, his rings the most precious jewels; his dinner-service was of
the purest gold, and his palace and citadel were the resort of poets,
minstrels, and musicians. lle improved the roads and canals of Egypt,
founded schools and mosques, and constructed fortifications; but, in order
to accomplish all this, he imposed burdensome taxes on his people. On
one occasion be levied a subsidy on all landed properly in I: to the value of ten months' produce, and he taxed the
estates of religious institutions still more heavily than those of private
individuals. A similar tax was imposed on mills, ships, beasts of burden,
and irrigation machinery, and all government pensions were withheld for
ten months, while large sums were arbitrarily cxtorted from the merchants.
At the same time be levied heavy dues on imports and exports, debased
the coinage, and taxed the inspectors of markets, who indemnified themselves by exactions frum the dealers. Already seriously injured by the
discovery of the Cape route to India by the Portuguese, the trade of
Egypt was terribly depressed by these tyrannical proceedings. Having at
length been made aware by the Venetians of the dangers which threatened
his country, Kansnweh cl-Ghfiri endeavoured to protect its commerce by
equipping a fleet for service against the Portuguese in India, and with








































