7

91dristfin gouge". CAIRO. 3. Route. 275

it in 1508 he gained a naval victory over Lorenzo, son of the Viceroy
Francisco d'Almeida, near Shawl in Beluchistan, but the following year
his fleet was compelled to retreat to Arabia in a shattered condition.
Meanwhile [ Inset ] had conquered 1. "z and Yemen, and added them to
the Egyptian dominions, on which occasion El-cash', caused the whole
of the S. side of the Haram at Mecca to be rebuilt (in 906 of the Hegira ],
as recorded there by an inscription under the Biib Ibrahim; but these
districts soon threw off his yoke and placed themselves under the snzcrainty
of the Osmans, and, before his newly equipped fleet reached India. the
sultan himself died. On 21th Aug. 1516, while fighting against the army
of the Osman sultan Selim I. in the plain of Dahik (to the N. of Aleppo),
he is said to have fallen down in a fit of apoplexy, and to have been
slain by his own followers, either from motives of cnpidity, or to
prevent his being captured by the enemy. His head was afterwards cut
off and carried as a trophy to the victor.

Farther on, we leave the Gami' el-Ashraf CPI. 37; uninteresting) to the left, and), about 220 yds. from the Chhnr el-thri,

reach the Rue Neuve (Muski, p. 253).

ME. Quarters. Maristc'm Katalin. Tomb of Sultan Mohammad
en-Nisir ihn Kalafm. Gama" Boréculciych. dei' Hakim. Bdb
en--Nasr. Bab el-Futah. Tombs of the Khalifs.

Starting from the Ezbekiyeh and ascending the Muski as far as
the El--Ghfiriyeh street, on the right (p. 254), and the Bazaar of
the Coppersmiths [ en-Nahhasin; Pl. 0, 2; p. 256), 011 the left,
we follow the latter, passing the entrance to the Khan el-Khalili
011 the right (p. 255), and after a few hundred paces observe on
the left three mosques, adjoining each other, with staring red and
white striped facades (p. 180). The first of these is the--
Muristan Kalafm (P1. 73), once a vast hospital f'rmhistin',
from the Persian word himaristan), the greater part of which is
now in a ruinous condition, and used as a workshop by coppersmiths and tinkers. The tomb of the founder, however, which
also serves the purpose ofa mosque, is tolerably preserved. The
foundation--stone was laid by Sultan el-Maus.stlr Katalin (1379--90)
in the year 683 of the Hegira, and the Whole edifice is said to have
been completed within thirteen months.

Passing over a son of Béhars. who was a minor, Kalafin ascended the
throne ongypt in Nov. 1279. He gained a victory over a rebellious governor
of Damascus; he defeated the lllongolians, who were threatening Syria,
at Horns; he chastised the princes of Armenia and Georgia for allying
themselves with the Mongolians, who had invited Pope Nicholas lV.,
Edward 1. of England, and Philip le Bel of France to attack Syria, offering
them the necessary horses, beasts of burden, and provisions; he entered
into treaties with Emperor Rudolph, the Genoese, Alphonso III. of Castile,
Jacopo of Sicily, the prince of Yemen, and the prince of Ceylon; he took
the town of deikiyeh (Laodicea) from the prince of Tripoli, and than
Tripoli itself, which after the death of Bohemund had fallen into the hands
of Bertram of Gibelet; and he made preparations to wrest from the Christians their fortress of'Akka (Acre), the only one still held by them in Syria.
Before, however, he could proceed to carry out this last enterprise, he
died on 10th Nov. 1200. Falaitn is immoderately praised by the Egyptian
historians. He was, indeed, less bloodthirsty than Belmrs, and less
tyrannical towards his subjects; but in the prosecution of his schemes

18*



