,

Tomb Mott. 0111110. 3. Route, 277

sumption of food was so large that the hospital employed several officials
for the sole purpose of buying provisions and keeping accounts. Besides
these officials there were a number of others, whose duty it was to collect
the various revenues set apart for the support of the institution. In the
tomb-mosque the 131111111 and the religious traditions connected with it
were publicly taught the teachers and the pupils both being supported
by government. A large adjacent apartment contained the library, which
was well stocked with exegetical treatises on the Koran. books of traditions, grammars, and medical, theological legal, and literary works. and
was kept in good order by a librarian and live assistants. The schoolbuilding contained four lecture--rooms for the teachers of the four schools
of Mohammedanism (p. 149); and there was also a school for children,
where sixty orphans were maintained and educated gratuitously.

In the tomb- chamber are still preserved articles of dress which once
belonged to Kalaun, and are populary supposed to possess miraculous
virtues. Thus, the shawl ('immelu of his turban is supposed to cure
headaches, and one of his heavy kaftans, wrapped round the body of the
patient for 24 hours is said to be an infallible remedy for ague. This
superstitious belief in the healing powers of (he sultan: clothing is
probably due to the fact that he devoted much attention to medicine.

The Portal (Pl.1; Nos. 1-8 are the only parts of the building
now preserved; the other numbers on the plan show the former
arrangements), the most interesting part of the whole edifice, is
constructed of black and white marble, and is of imposing height.
The doors still show traces of their former covering of bronze. The
ceiling of the entrance, with its open beams, is also very effective.

The corridors, most of which are vaulted in the Gothic style,
appear to some extent to have lost their original regularity in
consequence of their restoration by Seyyid tyr-Habit and Ahmed
Pasha Tither during the present century

The second door (Pl. b) on the right leads to the Vestibule
(Pl 0) of the Tomb of Kulm'm, now used as an office by the administrators of the Wald. The tomb itself contains a fine granite
column, and the lower parts of the walls are covered with mosaics
in marble. The bible (prayer-recess ], with its mosaics, its beautiful
dwarf-arcades, and its shell-shaped ornamentation, is also worthy
of notice. The disposition of the pairs of windows resembles that
which occurs in Christian churches of the Romanesque period.
The stucco tracery with which the windows are filled should also be
inspected.

Adjacent to the Mfiristan is the *Tomb of Sultan Mohammad
en-Nasir ibn Kalafin (1293-1311; Pl. 56), dating from 698 of
the Hegira.

In 1293 Alohummed esrNtttir t'lm Kalmln, son of the Kalafiu above
mentioned, when only nine years of age succeeded his elder brother
Rhem who is better known as El- ishraf (p. 255). At the beginning of
his reign sanguinary feuds broke out between Kethoga, his vicegerent,
and Shujai, his vizier. In Dee.12%, Ketboga. having got rid of his
antagonist usurped the sceptre, but two years later was dethroned by
the discontented emirs and was succeeded by Lajin, son- -in-law of Bebars,
and once a slave of Kalaun, who is said to have been a German by birth,
and to have been brought to EU ypt when ten years old Lajin having
been assassinated in Jan.1299 Nasir, who had meanwhile resided at
Korak, a Syrian fortress to the k of the Dead Sea, was recalled. Although
he had gained several victories over the Mongolians, who were threaten


