278 Route 3. 0.11m.



23/1211 Mo gm I

ing Syria and even Egypt itself. be was still treated by his emirs as a
youth under age, and the real rulers of the country were Seller, his
chancellor. and Bébars ll. Jasbengir, the prefect of his palace, who had
originally been a Circassian slave. In 1309 N'its.sir returned to Kerak, for
the avowed purpose of undertaking a pilgrimage to Mecca, but on his
arrival there he announced his intention to throw "the trammels of
tutelage, and for a time to establish his residence at Kerak. The
consequence was that he was declared at C. o to have forfeited his
throne, and Behars 11. was proclaimed sultan in his stead (April, 1309).
The Syrian emirs, however, remained faithful to Nfisir, and with their
aid he succeeded in re-establishing his authority in Egypt, although the
nominal rAhhasiile Khalif residing at 01-11111 had pronounced him an
outlaw and declared war against him. The three chief traits in 11.1 ir's
character. distrust, vindictiveness, and cupidity, now became very
prominent, and there was no promise or oath which he deemed inviolablc.
llc treated his emirs with the utmost. capriciousness. presenting them
with rich gifts, or ordering them to be executed, as the humour seized
him; and this feature of his character has been aptly described by
an Arabian historian, who declares'that he fattened his emirs, and killed
them when thoroughly fattened, in order that all they had swallowed
might return to him.' 15111.111 Abul Fidi (p. 201), however, one of his
einirs, retained his master's 111111111- till the time of his death, and even
had the title of sultan conferred upon him. Towards the mass of the
population, on the other hand, N 1 was always liberal and condescending; he abolished oppressive taxes, punished hoarders of grain, and
distributed corn in times of famine. He was tolerant towards the
Christians also, and was anxious to abrogate the regulations about 111 "
111. 2731 which certain fanatics had induced him to make in his earlie"
years, but was unable to carry out his wish. He even appointed Christian
officials, particularly in thc custom-house and finance departments. His
chief object was to surround himself with officers who could procure him
money, to defray the enormous expenses of his court, to gratify his taste
for horses (of which no fewer than 3000 are said to have been reared in
his stables annually), and his love of building. He connected Alexandria
anew with the Nile by means of a navigable canal, and constructed other
canals also, such as that from Khiinlyth to b'ir'has, and embankments.
In spite of his tyranny, he therefore enjoyed a considerable share of
popularity, to which his stringent enforcement of the religious laws and
his indulgence towards the clergy so long as they did not interfere in
politics, farther contributed. On 0th Jan. 1311 Nisir died the death of
a pious and penitent Muslim. As soon as the emit-s perceived that his
end was near, they seized upon the whole of his property, so that after
his death not even a suitable pall to cover the corpse could be found.
His miserable funeral took place by night, attended by a few emirs only,
and lighted by a single lantern. Thus, according to his Arabian biographers,
terminated the reign of the powerful sultan whose dominions had extended
from the frontier of Abyssinia to Asia Minor, and from the Euphrates to
Tunis. but who, though wealthy and the father of twelve sons, died like
a stranger and a childless man. and was buried like a pauper.

The late--Romanesque portal, in marble. with its round
arch. is strikingly different from all other Arabian portals of the
kind. It was originally cream } at Acre in Syria, after the destruction of which it was transferred to Cairo in A.D. 1291 by the
Egyptian Mamehike Saltin El-Ashraf (p. 955) as a trophy of victory. The only object of interest in the interior is the well1leihted and beautifully moulded Arabian stucco-work, remains of
which are preserved.

The third large building is the Barkfihiyeh Mosque [ 1' ]. 301,
erected at the close of the 14th rent. and containing the tomb of






