Gama" el-7tkim. CAIRO. 3. Route 279

the daughter of Barl.ulli. It possesses a marble portal and a bronze
door, but the interior is uninteresting.

Barrel-c (138299), a car: an slave, Succeeded in raising himself to
the throne by setting aside naggi, a boy of six years, and great-grandson
of Mohammed en-Nasir. He was proclaimed sultan in Nov. 1382, being
the first of the Circassian Mameluke sovereigns (p. 104). His accession to
the throne, which had been the result of treachery and intrigues of every
kind, so exasperated the emirs that they conspired against him and
dethroned him in June, 1389. In Jan. 139, however, after having defeated his enemies, celebrated his triumphal entry into Cairo.
During his reign the Mongolians under Timur and the Osmans under
Bajesid encroached on the frontiers of his empire, hut Barking was not
sufficiently energetic to resist their advances. He died in 1399.

These three mosques, with their three lofty minarets, present
an imposing, though not quite regular, facade. Opposite to them
is a modern sebil. Continuing to follow the Nahhasin Bazaar
(p. 206), which is generally enlivened by busy traffic, towards the
left, we come to another fountain with a School (Pl. 91), erected
by a certain'Abder-Bahmr'in Kikhya, the founder of several religious
edifices (p. 201). An arm of the Nile is said once to have flowed
between the Tomb of lialafin and this fountain.

Passing to the right of the fountain, we reach the beginning
of the Gameliyeh street, the seat of the wholesale trade of Cairo
(p. 207), the warehouses of which occupy the ohciias o. 257), or
inner courts, of this part of the town. The finest of these courts,
which present no great attraction, is the Okella Sulfilcar Pasha
(PI. 7-1 ], opposite the corner where our street bends to the N. The
entrance, with a kind of star-vaulting, and the court, with its
colounades and mushrebiyehs, should be noticed. To the left, at
the corner of the lane by which we have come, is the Medreseh
Gametiyeh (P1. 321, with a late-Romanesque gateway, the original
form of which is scarcely now traceable owing to the restoration
and bedaubing it has undergone. At the back of this school is a
tomb-mosque. Following the lane towards the N. for about 500
paces more, we reach a transverse lane on the left, which leads
to the entrance of the--
Gimf el--Hakim (Pl. 43), erected at the beginning of the 0th
cent. of the Hegira, on the plan of the Gami' ibu Tuldn, by Khalif
El-Hakim, of the Fatimite dynasty o. 102), the founder of the sect
of the Druses. A Cutie inscription over the E. gate gives the date

393 of the llegira (AD. 1003).

Eumkim (996-1020), the third Fatimite Khalil', succeeded his father
'Aziz when scarcely eleven years old. His bigoted attachment to the Shi'ite
views (p. 153), and his intolerance towards the Sunnites, Christians, and
Jews, rendered him unpopular with most of his subjects of the upper ranks.
With the lower classes, on the other hand, consisting partly of Shi'ites and
partly of Sunnites, he ingratiated himself by his liberality, his religious
and unassuming mode oflife, his zeal for the discipline of his soldiers, his
rigorous administration of justice, and his persecution of the Jews and
Christians But while he wore the plainest kind of clothing and prayed
daily among the people, be frequently caused his viziers and officials to
he executed from mere capricc. Down to the year 1017 he was a benefactor
to the poor, but a sanguinary tyrant towards the rich, the great, and those






