230 Route 3, mo. no ers-Nate.

who differed from him in creed. Till then he had been a devout Shi'ite
and exacted obedience from his subjects as their lawful lmzlm, but had
repudiated any homage approaching to deiticatirm. He now. however,
devoted himself entirely to the Ultra-Shi'ites, who elevated him to the
rank of a god. He was persuaded of his divinity by Mohammed ihn lsma'il
edmaraai, a cunning Persian seam, who called on his people to recognise
him as a deitrTheneeforward EI- Ijiikint discontinued his attendance
at the mosques. ceased to organise pilgrimagcs, and exacted from his
subjects the veneration due to a god. lslfun became a matter of indifference
to him, and he permitted the Christians and Jews who had embraced
the religion of the prophet to return to their former faith, although by
Mohammedan law such conduct was punishable with death. All the
suppressed churches and synagogues were re-established. and their property
restored to them, and the sumptuary laws were repealed. At length, on
the night of 12th Feb. 1021, El- Ilftkim disappeared, having probably been
assassinated while taking one of his nightly walks on the Mokattam
hills. The Druses (the sect founded by Tii" - -barazi, above mentioned),
however. believe, that El- Hakim vnluumnly withdrew from the world in
consequence of its sinfulness, and that he will one stay to appear and be
worshipped by all nations as the last incarnation of the Deity.

Until quite recently the greater part of the old mosque lay in
ruins, but the heaps ot'rubbish have now been removed or levelled,
so as to clear the great court for the reception of the building materials of the Wald. The central part of the sanctuary was restored,
as far as its advanced stage of dilapidation allowed, in order to
contain a museum of Arabian art, which will shortly be opened.
The court of the old mosque is to be occupied by a school of art.

The whole building occupies an area about 400 ft. long and
3:30 ft. wide. The great court was adjoined on the side next the
sanctuary by five aisles or arcades, on the W. by two, and on the
N. and S by three. These were supported by brick pillars, 10 ft.
high and 41/2 ft. thick, incrusted with stucco. The pillars are rounded
at the corners and bear pointed arches approaching the horseshoe
form. The ceiling and the wooden bolts were formed of the stems
of the date-palm. The Cutie inscriptions and arabesques are of little
artistic value, and the entire structure was much less carefully and
artistically built than its model, the Gami Tulun. - On the N.
side of the mosque are two massive Mabkhara (p. 177), with bases
executed in the style of the Egyptian pylons. That at the N.E.
corner is connected with the old town-walls, the bastions of which
bear inscriptions dating from the French occupation of 1799.

Returning to the lane by which we. have come, we follow it to
the N., passing on the left an okella with an interesting gateway
enriched with stalactite decoration, and a facade adorned with
Arabian wood-carving. We now reach the
Bab en-Nasr, or'Gate of the Help of God', the plan of which
was probably derived from the Roman castle of liabylou (p. 320).
The ancient city-wall to the W. connects this gate with the
similar Bab el-Futuh, or'Gate of Victory". These two gates,
together with the fortified mosque 0f Sultan llakim situated between them (see above), formed a strong position for the troops
of Napoleon, "hose cautions have only recently been removed






















