Waterworks. CAIRO. 3. Route. 281

from the terraces of the gates. The casemates and towers still hear
French names out in the bastion walls. On payment of a small
bakshish, the visitor may ascend the Bib en-Nasir and the citywall, and walk along the top of the latter to the Bib el-Flotilla.
These gates, the most important of the sixty which once existed
in the walls of Cairo, were erected by the vizier Herd Gamali in
the 11th century. The Bib en-Nasr in particular is built ofwellhewu stone, and has vaulted winding staircases in the interior,
groined vaulting in the gateway, girders with a kind of hatched
moulding, and cornices with a corbeled frieze. Over the entrance
are a slab with a Cutie inscription, and decorative shields. The
principal entrance of the Bit el-1i'uttO is flanked with semicircular towers, and that of the Bib en-Nasr with square towers. The
spaces between the inner and outer gates are vaulted.

We leave the Bhb en-Naer and turn to the right, crossing a
Mohammedan burial-ground, on the left side: of which, :01) 1a small









Bah enu'l'asr. Bah elvFumb.
(From the side next the town.)

eminence not far from the road, is interred J. L. Burclchardt
(d. 1817), the distinguished Oriental traveller, whose works are
still of high authority.

Before leaving the city-wall to the right, we observe on the
left two towers with iron basins, being the reservoirs of the Waterworks supplying the palace of the Khedive in the rAbbasiyeh and
the Citadel. In front of these, but less visible, are the five large
filters for purifying the town supply.

The water is pumped into these filters by engines of 150-horse power,
situated in the Isma'iliya quarter, on the canal of that name. A smaller
pump adjoining the filters is used for providing the Citadel with water. The
first temporary pumping machinery, erected in 186566, at Kasr el-'Ain,
was employed in filling the basins in the desert, and also in supplying a
small part of the city. The distribution of water is now effected by a.
double system of pipes, through one set of which the filtered water is
forced to a height of about 80 ft., while the other brings unfiltered water
from the neighbourhood of Bdlfillr for the purpose of watering the streets
and the gardens, conducting it to a height of about 30 ft. only. The
engines in the Isma'iliya quarter are capable of supplying the town
with 30,000 cubic metres, or about 111,000 cubic feet, of water per day.
The government pays 40 centimes for each cubic metre of filtered water






