282 Route 3. CAIRO. Tombs of tie li'hrllifs.' I'

consumed, and 25 centimes for the same quantity of unfiltered water.
The lowest rate payable by small families for filtered water is 8 fr. per
month The whole length of the pipes for filtered water, the largest
of which are 2ft. in diameter, amounts to IO miles, and that of the pipes
for unfiltered water to about i) miles. The cost of the works amounted
to 5 million francs.

The very dusty read next leads to the unimportant tomb of

Shékh Galat, a little beyond which we reach the so-called ~
"J'l'Tombs of the Khalifs,

which extend along the E. side of the city, and which, beyond the
Citadel, are known as Tombs of the Mamehikes (p. 327) +.

All these tombs, most of which are of vast extent, were once richly
endowed, each being provided with a numerous staff of shtsktss end attendants, who with their families resided within their precincts. At the
beginning of the present century the revenues of these establishments
were confiscated, so that the tombs are now falling to ruin. The descendants ef the mosque attendants and other Arabs have since taken up
their quarters among the ruins, and the old necropolis has thus been
converted into a kind of suburb of Cairo, the inhabitants of which often
pester strangers with the itupurtuui er

A visit to the tombs is exceedingly interesting, particularly towards
sunset, owing to the very curious and novel picture they present. They
may be reached by carriage, but the traveller will be more independent
(in donkey-back. The necessary order of admission from the "'ahf ministry may he obtained through the consulate (see p. Silt.

POINTS OF VIEW. (1) From the road, approaching from the 135th cuNasr, a little beyond the tomb of the shekh- t2) From the s. W. corner
(see Plan), at the foot of the Citadel, [ 3) From the "\VINDMILL HILL
opposite the end of the Rue Neuve, the E. prolongation of the Muski.
This last point is specially recommended as it also atl'erds an admirable
survey of the town, the Nile, and the Pyramids, and is very easily
reached. llalf-an-hour ofleigure before sunset can hardly be better spent
than on this hill (p. 237), but the beggars are often troublesome.

The N.E. group of these mausoleums (on the left when approached from P, ib en-Nasir) consists of the Tomb of Sultan Abu
Sihl Kattpuvels er-Cihrsr't Ly. 274), a cube surmounted by an
elongated dome, and two tomb-mosques, one of Sulgzin et-Asltruf,
with ahandsome minaret, the other of Emir Yi'tsuf, son of liursbcy
(see p. 285). These two mosques, which present no attraction, are
now used for military purposes, and are not shown without special
permission from the minister of war. As visitors are prevented by
the sentry from approaching them, we leave them to the left, and
proceed in a straight direction to the
'Tomb-Mosque of Sultan Barking o. 279); (p. 279 ], with its two superb
domes and its two minarets. Under the N. dome are the tombs of
the male, and under the S. dome those of the female members of
the family. The present Entrance { PL 1) at the S.\\'. corner is in
a ruinous condition. The old Principal Entrance (1'1. 16 ] at the



i The name'Tombs of the Khalifs' is historically a misnomer.
lint ]: the linbritc (1255-1382) and the Cir. "n Munmlukc Sultans

J e Ttyt'uyruy deperrrlent on nhL fs ut the house of the
Ethhasiulee resident in Egypt (p. M), but treated them ttht mere puppets;
and it way these real monarchs ofldgypt. and not the libalilh, who built
these large and superb Inausolcums.



