_
28-1 Route GAD"). Tombs ofthe Khul1ps.

X. W. angle, now closed, has an architrave of alabaster; the threshold
is of granite, and the ceiling consists of a dome with pendentives.

The Vestibule (1) of the b'. facade, through which we reach
the interior, has a tine star-shaped dome. We pass thence into the
Hosh, or Sahn el-Chimp JI. a, b, c, d), the large Quadrangle, in
the centre of which is the Iiariefiyeh (PI. I), or fountain for aqution. Beneath the larger (N.E.) dome is the Tomb ofSnltfm 1larlitsli
(71) ]. 12), who reigned from 19th Ramadan, 784, to 15th .Shawal,
801 (pomp. p. 279). Adjoining the tomb is a column, said to
represent the height of the deceased, and inscribed with several
biographical data. A black stone here (ironstone), when rubbed
on granite under water, is believed by the Muslims to communicate
sanatory properties to the discolourcd water.

The adjacent tomb is that of Sultan Foray, son of liarlgulg.

Fm'ag (1399-1-112) hail scarcely ascended the throne (20th June, 1399),
as a boy of thirteen years of age, before the (139111112) smans began to threaten the
Syrian dominions of the Egyptian empire; and Timur (Tamerlane), in his
war against the Osmans, shortly afterwards defeated the Syrian emirs, who
had opposed him, near Aleppo. Farag himself thereupon headed a campaign against Timur, and proceeded Victoriously as far as Damascus; but
owing to dissensions among his emirs he was obliged to return to Cairo
and leave h' vis to its fate. After the defeat of the Turks under Baie d
by the Mongols under Timur at the battle of Angora, Farag was compelled to enter into negotiations with Timur, and he is even said to
have sent him Egyptian coins hearing the Mongolian conqueror's name
in token of his subjection. The death of Timur, however (18th Dec.
1103), saved Egypt from the risk of being conquered by the Mongols.
The latter years of Farag's reign were constantly disturbed by the rebellions of his emirs, particularly Shékh el-Mahmddi Muaiyad (see p. 273).
He was at length compelled by the insurgents to capitnlate at Damascus,
whither he had proceeded with his army, and was executed (May, 11121.

The third tomb contains the remains of a brother ot'Farag, who
reigned seventy days only. The S. Mausoleum (PI. 13) contains
the tombs of the female members of the family. The *Mambar
(1'1. 6), in hard limestone, one of the most beautiful existing
specimens of Arabian sculpture, was presented by Kait Bey
(p. 268. The *Aliuarets with their three galleries (besides the
, P _ t g
balconies below them), are borne by pendent roruices.

The symmetrical plan of the edifice, its massive masonry, and
the symmetrical disposition of the rows of pilasters with domes,
constitute this mosque one of the most perfect examples ofArabian
architecture in existence; and, notwithstanding its ruinous condition, it still presents a most imposing appearance.

To the W. (right) of this tomb-mosque is the Tomb of Sultan
Suitrnon, containing interesting sculpture in the dome and inscriptions in fayence, now partly destroyed. To the E. of this
tomb land to the S. ot'liarhfih's mosque ] is another handsome domecovercd tomb, the founder of which is unknown; and there are other
interesting dome-structures of various forms, carefully executed,
but of uncertain origin. Adjoining the mausoleum of Huh'nu'm is
the tomb of the Sam: 11mm [ seven maidens). The dome, with its






