Tombs oft/19 Kmart. 0111110. 3, Route. 285

pendentives, is of a very elongated form, and differs considerably
from those of the neighbouring mausolea, being more similar to
those of the so-called Mameluke tombs (p. 3270.

Opposite the last-named tomb, to the E. (left), is the TombMosque of Bursbey (Berisbai), completed in 1431.

Blurbey (1422- 38), who had for a time been the vicegerent of a young
son of Tutu, ascended the throne "'22 After having defeated some of his rebellious vessels, be determined to attack Cyprus,
one of the chief hotbeds of piracy. 111 the course of the third of his expeditions he succeeded in capturing Janus, King of Cyprus, whom he
carried in triumph to Cairo. On paying tt 11111311111 of 200, 000 denarii, and
promising to pay the sultan an annual tribute, he was sent back to Cyprus
as a vessel of Egypt. Bursbey was, however, less successful in his battles
with the ancoman Kara Yelek, who had allied himself with Timur, the
prince of the Mongols. A contemplated expedition against Egypt, which
was to have been commanded by Shah Rukh, a son of Timur, had to be
abandoned in consequence of the breaking out of a pestilence throughout
the East. In order to prevent Kara Yelek from joining Shah Ilokh,
llurshey attacked him in N. Syria in 1436, but u as compelled by his
refractory emirs to conclude a dishonourable peace, notwithstanding
which he shortly afterwards entered Cairn with all the pomp of a conqueror. Shah Rokh then demanded the a'un tn himself of the privilege
of sending to Mecca the materials for the covering of the Knife, a right
which had belonged to the Sultans of Egypt since the decline of the khalifate
of Ba" hd.1. (l, but Bursbey was successful in resisting this claim He also
defeated the Sherif of Mecca and thus became the protector of the holy
city, while the possession of Jedda, the seaport of Mecca (p. 1123), afforded
him great commercial advantages. This was owing to the fact that Jedda
had recently become a favourite resort of the Indian spice-merchants who
had previously traded with'bien, but had there been subjected to gross
extortion by the princes of Yemen. Burshey availed himself so thoroughly
of these advantages that he incurred the hostility of Venice, Catalonia,
and Arragon; but he succeeded in monopolising the trade in 11111110 of
the most important articles, so that the interests of private dealers were
seriously prejudiced. He died a natural death in 1138.

Various data regarding the building ofthe mosque and the legacies bequeathed for its preservation were engraved on a long
marble frieze on the okella which adjoins the edifice 011 the right,
and a considerable part of it is still to be seen in the place. The
Liwin contains good mosaics. Some of the handsome perforated
stucco windows are still preserved, but the bronze gratings have
been removed, and the openings built up. Several severe conflicts
between the French troops and the Mamelukes are said to have
taken place around this mosque.

The admirably executed gateway with its pendentives, and the
wall enclosing the three monuments, were erected by Mohammed,
an intendant of the HOsh, about the year 114? of the IIcgira,

Adjoining the mosque is the Jlibed er-Ili/m, a mausoleum
with a remarkably depressed dome, next to which is the Tomb of
the Mother of Bursbey, a poorly executed work. The form of the
openings in the latter is worthy of notice, as the arches with straight
sides, placed below an acute angle, though not uncommon, seldom
occur quite alone. The oldest arches of the kind are to be found
in the'Amr and Azhar mosques.



