250 Route 3. eAHm. Tombs of the I (huti'fs. I

In the same street, a few paces farther to the s., we observe on
the right the long Okella Kuit Bey, with its carefully executed
gateway and characteristic ornamentation. The facade is built of
massive stone, and is tolerably regular, but the mushrebiyehs are
of inferior workmanship and probably of later date. The gate is
mounted with large iron nails. The ground-floor is vaulted, while
the upper floor has an open ceiling. The edifice was completed in
the year 877 of the llegira.

A little farther to the s., projecting in an angle, is a public
fountain new in ruins, also erected by Iiait Bey. The shallow
niches, the upper parts of which are shell-shaped, are in the form
of fantastic arches.

Beyond this sebil is an open space. on the right side of which
is the "Tomb-Mosque ofKait Bey (p. 268), the finest edifice among
the Tombs of the Khalifs, with a lofty dome and beautiful minarets.

The Sahn el-G'ami' was once closed by a mushrebiyeh
lantern, which fell in 1872. The rest of the edilicc has an open
ceiling, as in the case of
the mandates (p. 185 ]. The
Dikkeh, in the form ofa balcony, resembles that in the
mosque of liait Bey adjaccntto the mosque ofTult1n.
The details are very elaborately executed. Within
the mausoleum are shown
two stones, one of red,
and the other of black
granite, which are said
to have been brought from
Mecca by liait lley, and
to bear impressions of the
feet of the prophet. One of
them is covered with a
wooden canopy, and the
other with a bronze dome.
The mosque also contains
a finely carved knrsi for the
Koran. The whole edifice
is erected of solid and regl P _. 1 F' 2% VI ,1 ] "nlar masonry. The illinuiret
a caste. .i 2. 1s mam my, the elesaim el-Gfimi'. 5. Liwan with { em-a and game ofits form. lheImmC,
Mamhar. G. Mausoleum. 7. Tomb ofl_ (ait richw adorned with bands

"'3" Cl',',"" li') /,';'dl,'yt1'it J?'l'l" of sculpturing, isconstrncted of limestone.

With a visit to this mosque the traveller may conclude his in









