, Mosque cl-Azhur. CAIRO. 3. Route. 287

spection of the great necropolis. Those who are not fatigued may
now walk towards the Citadel (p. 262). examining the different
héshes, domes, and smaller monuments on the right and left, and
may then visit the Tombs of the Mamelukes (p. 3270 beyond the
Citadel. The embankment of the new railway which runs between
the Tombs of the Khalifs and the quarries of the Mokattam, affords
a good survey of the scene. The traveller who quits the Tombs
about sunset should not omit to ascend the Windmill Hill from the
side next the town (comp. Plan, p. 282), for the sake of the view.
A fine effect, especially by evening light, is produced by the domes
and the peculiar colouring of the valley and the opposite heights
of the Motat..tam. This mound of rubbish should indeed be frequently visited (comp. p. 282). To the W. are the city, the plain
of the Nile, and the Pyramids. The red building to the RE. is the
'Abbfisiyeh (p. 332), to the left of which is a mosque (Gimi' el'Adif). In front of the latter is the N.E. group of the Tombs of the
Khalifs o. 2820, a little to the right of which are the two minarets
of Sultan Barlsfih (p. 2851). Beyond these rises the Gebel el-Ahmar
(p. 3371, adjoining which are the Mokattam hills, with the other
Tombs of the Khalifs at their base.

Mosques of El-Azhar and Uasanén.

The G & mi' el-Azhar (1m 35: 0,2) presents few features of architectural interest, and is so shut in by houses that very little of
the exterior is visible. The plan of the principal part was originally
the same as that of the'Amr Mosque (p. 324), but the numerous
additions made at various periods have somewhat modified its form,
and since the conversion of the mosque into a university the aisles
have been separated from the court by walls and railings. The first
great alterations took place in the year 1004 of the Begin, in the
reign of Mohammed ibn Murid, the next were made by Shékh Isma'il Bey in 1131 of the Hegira, and the last by Sa'id Pasha about
1848, all exhibiting the decline of Arabian architecture.

The Minarets (Pl. 13), some of which are brightly painted,
were erected at different periods, one of them having been built
by rAhder Rahman Kikliya (p. 279 ].

The mosque has six gate the Bib el-lluzcyinin (Pl. a), or
Gate of the Barbers (see below), on the W. side, forming the principal entrance, and possessing an interesting portal; the Bill) (P1. b), on the N. side; the Bab csh-Shmlru CPI. c), or Soup
Gate, on the E.; the Btd, or Gate of the Upper Egyptians; the Bab esh-Shawwfim (PL e), or Syrian Gate; and the Bdb
el-Maghfirbch'fl'l. o, or Gate of the W. Africans, the three last
being on the S. side.

The mosque was converted into a University (new the most
important in Mohammedan territory) by Khalif'Aziz Billzlh (All.
975-96), at the suggestion of his vizier Abu'l Farag Yilctsb, in








