Mosque el--Azhur. CAIRO. 3. Route. 289

Most of the students, particularly those whose native tongue is not
Arabic, begin their university education by learning the Arabic grammar
('vilm can-71112121). The next branch of study is religious science ('ilm etkeldm), the introduction to which consists of a series of preparatory lectures on the attributes of God and the prophet (Wm et- -taul.tid, i. e. the
doctrine of the unity of God). The chief attributes of God are said
to he the following twelve: existence, source of all being, eternity, independence, unity, omnipotence, will (in accordance with which he rules
the universe, man being powerless to save himself from sin or to he
pious without the assistance and grace of God), omniscience (or knowledge of everything that happens between the lowest foundations of the
earth and the loftiest heights of the firmament), life, vision (which enables
him to see everything everywhere, without the aid of light, and without
eyes), hearing (without em, in the same way as he knows without a
brain, and overthrows without hands), and speech (in a language that has
had no beginning, alanguage without'letters or sounds, which is inherent
in his nature, and does not resemble human speech).

After having completed his course of religious instruction, the student
proceeds to study law film el-.fi.kh).

'Jurisprudence', says Ibn lihalddn, one of the greatest of Arabian
thinkers,'is a knowledge of the precepts of God in relation to the actions
of men, some of which it is our duty to perform, while others are forbidden, or recommended, or permitted; and this knowledge is derived
from the book of God, he the Karim, from the Sunni; (tie. tradition),
and from the inferences drawn by the law giver (Mohammed) from Sufi
ficient materials afforded by the Koran The study of law is therefore
based upon the exegesis of the Koran (tafsir) and of tradition { hadith }

The science of law is divided into two branches:
(U The doctrine of the chief Religious Commandments of El- -l'sl:" 11n,
viz. (a) Et- Tauhid, or the recognition of God 5 unity and of Mohammed
as his prophet, or the duty of repeating the
canonical prayers in connection with the ablutions; (c) The Sadalra and
Zal-cil, or giving of alnis and payment of a religious tax- (d) The Sig/tint,
or fasting during the month of Ramadan- (e) The (Iago, or duty of performing a pilgrimage to Mecca.

(2 ] The doctrine of Secular Law, civil and criminal, either as expressly
laid down by the Koran or as deducible from it. The legal literature
again is divided into two classes, one embracing systematic expositions
of the law of the Koran and the other consisting of the decisions (fetwa)
and opinions of celebrated jurists in special and difficult cases.

Besides these leading branches of instruction, logic Cihrs el-man.ti.k)
rhetoric (rim elmtaztvli wul Dayan), the art of poetry (army, the
proper mode of reciting the Ru n (the et _ a a), and the correct pronunciation of the letters O'trd et- teg'urid) are also taught.'

The above list of the subjects taught at the most important of Mohammedan schools will serve to convey an idea of the intellectual condition
of Orientals at the present day. The most conspicuous defect of their
culture consists in the entire absence of independent thought, in consequence of which they are the more recipients of the knowledge of the
past. Their minds are thus exclusively occupied with the lowest grade
of intellectual work, their principal task consisting in the systematic
arrangement or encycloptedic compilation of the knowledge handed down
to them. Some of the shekhs of the Azhar are men of marvellous erudition, but they are destitute of creative power, or of the ability to utilise
their old materials for the construction of any new edifice, and they adhere faithfully to the notion of their forefathers that the greatest
triumph of mental labour is to learn by heart any work of acknowledged
literary value. Doubt and criticism, which so often serve to open up fresh
sources of knowledge, are unknown to them; with natural history they
are entirely nnacquainted; and even geometry, algebra, and astronomy, so
assiduously cultivated by the ancient Arabs, have now fallen into oblivion. So well satisfied are they, moreover, with their own wisdom,
that they utterly despise the scientific pursuits of the Western world.

BAEDEKER'S Egypt I. 2nd Ed. 19







