r fiosquc cl-Azhar. CAIRO. J. Route. 291

(P1. o, which was restored by Edhem Pasha at the beginning of
the present century, we frequently observe barber's engaged in
shaving the heads of the students with admirable skill, but we of
course avoid stopping to watch the process for fear of giving offence.
This being one of the fountain-heads of Mohammedan fanaticism,
the traveller should, of course, throughout his visit, be careful not
to indulge openly in any gestures of amusement or contempt.
Beyond the entrance, which forms a kind of fore-court, we reach
the flesh el-Gamir (Pl. 2), or Great Court, where the students are
seen sitting on their mats in groups and conning their tasks. This
court does not contain the usual fountain for ablution, but there
are three small cisterns CPI. 3) for the purpose. The arcades
enclosing the court have arches approaching the keel shape, but
the sides are straighter than usual. The openings and niches over
the arcades are less systematically arranged than in the case of the
Tuldn Mosque (p. 265), from which they seem to have been copied.

On the E. side, in the direction of Mecca, is the Liwin elGimie (Pl. o, or Sanctuary, now the principal hall of instruction,
covering an area of about 3600 sq. yds., with a low ceiling resting
on 380 columns of granite and marble, all of ancient origin, and
arbitrarily arranged. The hall is entirely destitute of architectural
enrichment, and presents a heavy and sombre appearance. Here
again, as in the court, we observe various groups of students
in the usual crouching attitude, and others devoutly praying in
front of the Bibles on. 5), of which there is one for each of the
four recognised sects of the Shife'ites, the Malekites, the Uanefites,
and the Hambalites (camp. p. 149). The domes over these Bibles
and their walls are adorned not unpleasingly in stucco. On the S.
side is the Tomb of'Ahd er-ftalyuiu iiihhya CPI. S), by whom the
8.13. part of the mosque was restored (d. about 1750). To the W.
(right) of this tomb is the Riwah (see above) of the students
from Upper Egypt CPI. 34), and to the left of the latter, on the E.
side, is that of the natives of Mecca and Medina CPI. 28 ]. The N.
side is bounded by the Mesgicl Gfihariyeh (Pl. O), a smaller mosque,
and the oldest part of the whole structure.

After having inspected the great hall, the visitor is conducted
into a number of smaller apartments (riwtlrsj, some of which are
indicated in the plan of the edifice, but they contain nothing
noteworthy. There is also a separate riwals, called the Zdteivet elrOmydn, for blind students, for whose maintenance a portion of the
funds is set apart. These blind youths, who have a shékh of their
own, were frequently guilty of riotous conduct in former years,
and used to parade the streets armed with bludgeons, whenever
they conceived their rights infringed, the disputes being generally
concerning the quality of their food. To this day they are said to
be the most fanatical of their seat, and to entertain the most bitter
hatred and contempt for the kafir, or unbelieving Christian.

19*






