292 Route 3. CAIRO. Grimi' el-Ilasanén. I

U11 the right and left of the W. Entrance (Pl.a) are two old
mosques. The Medreseh of Emir Taibur (Pl. 10), 011 the S. side,
built in 1309, contains at 1511113 richly adorned with mosaic. The
mosque On the N. side CPI. it) is new in ruins, as indeed are several other parts of the mosque of El-Azhar ('the flourishing').

Returning to the Rue Neuve, we observe to the N., opposite
us, the handsome minaret of the
"'Gami' el- Hasanén Cro. 46; o, 9), the mosque of Hasan and
1511151311, the sons of' Ali, the son-in-law of the prophet (p. 153;
the termination 311 indicating the dual), which has recently been
restored. The interior is constructed with considerable symmetry
and care. The wooden ceiling, from which hang a number of lamps,
is painted. A marble column is said to contain the head of Husén,
who was slain at Kerbela by Shemir lbn el--Ganshan by order of
Yezid. The head is said to have been brought to Cairo in a green
silk bag. This tomb-mosque is chiefly frequented by men on
Thursdays, and by women on Saturdays. 1"

* The visitors to the tombs, burial--mosques, and wells, which are to
he found near almost every village, generally have a twofold object in
view, one being to do honour to the memory of the deceased and to
invoke the blessing ofheaven upon them, and the other to obtain through
their mediation the fulfilment of some special wish. On arriving at the
tomb, the visitor must turn towards the face of the deceased and
pronounce the greeting of peace. He then walks round the mak., 111
monument, from left to right repeating the fatha at the door, or at each
of the four sides, in a very low voice. A "irell of the 11111-1111 is sometimes
also repeated, and even the khatmeh, or recitation of the whole volume,
is not nnfrequeutly performed. In conclusion the praises of God and
the prophet are usually recited, coupled with a prayer that the merit
of the whole performance may he placed to the credit of the wcli's
soul. Before the concluding prayer, the worshipper sometimes introduces
a prayer for his own temporal and spiritual welfare. When wealthy
persons visit the tomb of a saint, they distribute bread among the poor,
and pay one sakka or more to dispense water gratuitously. Some of the
tombs are chiefly visited on certain days of the week- and there are
certain days of the year (especially about the middle of the month of
Sha'ban) on which festivals are celebrated in honour of the patron saints
of the different towns and villages. The most important of these are
that of id Ahmed el -Bedawi at Tanta in Lower Egypt, and that of
'Abd er- Rahim at" Keneh in Upper Egypt. A week or a fortnight before
the day of the festival, booths for the sale of coffee and swealmeats beWin
to spring up around the shrine and crowds of devotees flock to the tomb
from all directions, some of them to perform the zikr, and others to
take part in various fantasiyas. Dancing women, singers, musicians,
jugglers, snake-channers, bu mm, as well "lerry-go-rounds,
present their various attractions to young and old on the feast-day
itself, when the crowd is greatest, a solemn procession takes place. The
mahmul, 11 kind of wooden frame which usually lies on the roof of the
11111111. is covered with the gold and silver-embroidered winding-sheet of

the saint and 11180011 on the back of a camel, gorgeously decorated with l
ribbons carpets, .1 hells. The procession is headed by "utriders galnpping to and frn nn camels, by Me- -players and drummers, and by the arm- I
bearing population of the village, whose chief deli'Vht consists in firing

on their guns. Immediately before the camel with the malarial walk a
number of venerable old men reciting passages from thu 11111-1111, and on
each side of it are flag-bearers. Behind it come a band of music, female






