31115111. CAIRO. 3. Route. 293

The battle of Kerhcla, at which Hur? n fell, took place on 10th
Moharrem of the year 61 of the Hegira (10th Oct. 680). Historians record
that Husen 5 head was sent to Damascus, while his body was interred in
the Meshhed Husen on the N E. frontier of Persia, to which Persian
pilgrims still resort in great numbers.

Neither Ijasmz nor Husz'n was remarkable for moral worth or political greatness. The veneration paid to these young'saints' seems to
have sprung solely from the persecutions to which the whole family of
mi was subjected, coupled with the fact that they were the grandsons
of the prophet. Their misfortunes doubtless at first excited pity, a feeling which led to their being honoured with a kind of deification. particularly in Persia, where divine honours had at a still earlier period been
paid to the sovereigns of the country as being descended from the gods. It
is still the custom in Persia, during the month of 3Iolparrem, to represent
the events which led to Husens death in nine successive theatrical
performances, somewhat resembling the Passion plays of Europe.

Opposite the egress of the mosque is the entrance to the Khan
Khalili (p. 255). At the E. end of the Rue Neuve is the Windmill
Hill mentioned at pp. 5282 and 287, adjoining which is the road to
the Tombs of the Khalifs (pp. 282- 5287).



u

Data ]: and the Museum of Egyptian Antiquities.

Owing to the expansion of Cairo towards the W., in the direction
of the Nile, 13111511; (or Boulaq), situated beyond the Isma'iliyeh
Canal, and formerly an island, has become the river-harbour of the
city of the khalifs. Its narrow streets present a very busy scene,
affording a more characteristic picture of Oriental life than the
capital, as the inhabitants of distant provinces are proportionally
more numerous here. Natives of Dir-Fur, Wadai, Donlgola, Kordofain, and Khart.thn, and members of the various negro tribes are
seen mingling in picturesque confusion; and popular festivals and
amusements are very frequently provided for their entertainment
in the evening. Goods are conveyed hither from Upper Egypt,
from Nubia, from the interior of Africa, and from the fertile Delta;
and the Nile barges are then laden with other cargoes for the returnjourney. The principal quay is nearly opposite the palace of Gezireh,
adjacent to a large timber-yard; and it is most frequented between
October and December, when the rapids of the river are most easily
navigated. The merchants of Cairo congregate here every morning
to make purchases, frequently as early as 7 o'clock. When there is
a scarcity of goods, they sometimes go out to the vessels in boats;
but when there is no scarcity, the goods are sold by auction in
Bfilak. Caravans bringing merchandise also arrive here not unfrequently, the most important being from Tunis via anra and Siwa,
and from Wadai and Dar--Fur. On one part of the route from DirFfir, itis said that the caravans obtain no fresh water for twelve days.

dancers, men on camels thumping on huge drums, and lastly a promiscuous
crowd of holiday makers. The procession often marches about the town
for an hour or more, and thence out into the desert. Towards evening
the mahmal is brought back to its usual place, and the festival then
terminates.



