294 Route 3. CAIRO.'M'use-um
The chief wares brought to Buliik are gum, ostrich- feathers, ivory,
and sauna-leaves. The best quality of gum, called'samgh kordoffini,
comes from Kordofan, while the inferior'talh is from Sennar. The
ostrich- feathers come from Kordofan, "here the birds are reared, and
alw frnm Wadai and Dar-Far. The feathers are carefully tied up in
bundles, and well peppered to protect them against moths They are
sold by weight, a rot ] (pound) of good and pure white feathers realising
as much as 301.11 single white feather of good quality is worth 10-20 m.
The black and grey feathers are much less expensive. After reaching
Europe they require to be washed before being used. 01121111 ways "st
has become usual to pick out the finest feathers, and to other them for
sale to travellers at high prices even as far up as Assuan.

At 111113115, and at the moorings of Embdbeh, farther to the N.,
the traveller will find the dahahiyehs, or boats fitted up for the
voyage to Upper Egypt. At the N. and of the town is situated
the Arsenal, founded in 1835, with a manufactory of weapons attached to it. Machinery for Egyptian mannfactories arriving from
Europe is put together at 13131515 before being sent to its final
destination, and all repairs of machinery are also executed here.
Br" ilil.c also boasts of a large Iron Foundry, an Ecole des Arts at
Méticrs, a Paper Manufactory, a House of Correction for Women,
a Lunatic Asylum, and the Government Printing Office, none of
which establishments will interest ordinary travellers.

The Vieeregal Printing0flieelfel- mulba a. director,'Ali-Beg G (mdat) was
founded by Mohammed'Ali, chiefly for the purpose of printing and dis.scminatiuu translations of European scientific works of all kinds, and particularly school-books. The introduction of printing had at first to contend
against serious prejudices, as many of the Muslims feared that the name
of God would he defiled by contact with impure substances used in the process. To this day, indeed, the 111111111 is preferred in a written form; 11111
thanks to the perseverance of the government the prejudice against other
printed books has now almost entirely disappeared, and there are few of
the many modern institutions recently introduced into Egypt which have
thriven so well as this printing-office. Within the last fifty years there
have been) printed here, according to the government statistics, 418,375
copies of? 26 works f303 vols.) of1 m-ious kinds, without reckoning works
printed at the cost of private individuals.

The number of private printing-offices is also increasing from year to
year. the most important being that of Mustafa \Vahahi, where works
published by a scientific society (gem'iyet el-r cif) are printed. Lithography is also beginning to come into use, but the execution is often
defective.

Ofthe works printed in Egypt. 1000-4000 copies are usually struck off,
and the fact that the whole ufthem are generally sold within a few years
all'ords a proof that the taste for literature in the East is again on the
increase Some works, such as Betcharis collection of traditions, have
an immense sale. Energetic attempts are still being made to render
European works accessible to Orientals in the form of translations. chiefly
from the French. Thus, among the legal works, may he mentioned a
tranr lation of the Code Napoleon, among the geographical the works of
1 lie, and among the historical the Life of Charles NH. hy Voliaivtt; and a few 11111 11,111 the libretto of (ht worthy of being printed 111 Arabic at the prvermnuut printirvg-uff 1- .111 "- At the some time the national literature has not
been no'tlocted, 11111 ] a number of valuable early Arabian works have
recoily betm hmnght into notice by the agency ofthe printing-press,
1111111 ail the historical works of Ibn, "Athir (eump. p201), and the'liook of the Songs by Abulfmag el- Isbahttui (11.966)





