DRAGOMANS. 13

Travellers about to make a tour of any length may avoid all the
petty annoyances incident to direct dealings with the natives by
placing themselves under the care of a DRAGOMAN (Arab. twgemdn).

The word dragoman is derived from the chairman target »,'to explain',
or from lei-912m,'explanation'. The Arabic t (u-gam also signifies'to interpret'. The dragoman was therefore originally merely a guide who explained or interpreted. Since the 7th cent, BA). When l'sammetiehus I.
threw open the country to foreign trade, against which it had previously
been jealously closed, this class, which is mentioned by Herodotus as a
distinct caste, has existed in Egypt. That author informs us that
Psammetichus caused a number of Egyptian children to be educated by
Greeks in order that they might learn their language; and it was these
children who afterwards became the founders of the dragoman caste.
The great historian himself employed a dragoman, from whom he frequently derived erroneous information. A dragoman, who was employed
by the governor Elius Genus to accompany him up the Nile, is accused
by Strabo of absurdity, conceit, and ignorance. The ignorant Arabian,
Nubian, or Maltese dragomans of the present day do not attempt to explain or translate the ancient inscriptions. An effort was recently made
with some success to educate young Arabs for this calling in a school
founded for the purpose; but, like most Oriental undertakings, the
scheme has not been persevered with.

The dragomans, who speak English, French, and Italian,
undertake for a fixed sum per day to defray the whole cost of
locomotion, hotel accommodation, fees, and all other expenses, so
that the traveller is enabled to obtain, as it were, a bird's eye view
of the country without being concerned with the cares of daily life.
On the other hand the traveller is frequently imposed upon by
the dragoman himself.

The charge made by the dragoman varies very greatly according
to circumstances, such as the number and the requirements of the
travellers, the length of the journey, and the amount of the demand
for the services of such a guide. A dragoman is usually employed
for the longer tours only, such as the voyage up the Nile, the journey
to Mt. Sinai, the excursion to the Fayurn, and a visit to the less frequented towns in the Delta. Visitors to Alexandria, Cairo, Suez,
Isma'iliya, and Port Sa'id may well dispense with a dragoman, as
every necessary service will be rendered them by the commissionnaires of the hotels (5-10 fr. per day). Dragomans of the better
class, moreover, usually consider it beneath their dignity to escort
their employers through the streets of the towns, and are apt to
consign them to the guidance of the local cicerones.

For the above-named longer tours the charges vary so greatly,
and the services to be rendered on each are so different, that a
separate contract with the dragoman should be drawn up in each
case. (Thus, for the Nile voyage he has to procure a dahabiyeh,
for the Fayfim horses, for Mt. Sinai camels, for the Delta canalboats and donkeys, and, for the last three journeys, tents also.)
Information regarding expenses and other details, as well as the
names of some of the best dragomans, will be prefixed to each of
the routes in question. The larger the party, the less will be the












