creams. CAIRO. 3. Route. 295

A peculiarity of many of the books recently printed at Bfilak is that
smaller works illustrative of the text are printed on the margins of the
pages. The paper used for the purpose is made in Egyptian manufactories, chiefly from maize-straw, which accounts for its yellowish tint.

The great attraction at Bridal; is the
"Museum of Egyptian Antiquities (the traveller bound for
which has only to direct his donkey-boy'lil Antikét' ], a magnificent collection, and entirely unrivalled of its kind. A great advantage possessed by it over all the European museums is that the
places where all its monuments and relics have been found are
known, and indicated by labels, a circumstance of the greatest importance in assisting historical and geographical research. The collection was founded by M. Mariette-Pasha, who died in 1881 and
has been succeeded as director by Prof. Jfaspero, another Frenchman. The keeper of the museum is Herr Brugsch-Bey, who is assisted by M. Bowiunt.

The arrangement of the museum has recently been entirely
altered, and most of the treasures formerly stored in the magazines
have new found a place in the building itself. Several of the rooms
have been enlarged and an addition has been built to receive the
objects found at Dér el-Bahri, near Thebes, in 1881. Prof. Maspero
has also caused a room to be fitted up for monuments of the Creek,
Roman, and Coptic periods.

The Museum is open daily, except on Fridays, horn S to 12 and
from 2 to 5; in winter from 8 to 12 and i to 4 o'clock (no fee).
Strangers, who wish to make special studies, will receive every
facility from the director and keepers.

Court. To the right of the gateway is a colossal figure of King
Usertesen I. LPl. A), in rose-coloured granite, brought from Abydos
in 1881. Farther on, placed against the external wall of the Museum, are four dark-grey granite figures, in a sitting posture. of
the lion-headed goddess Sekhet (No. 6006), all brought from the
temple of the goddess Muth at Karnak. To the right, between the
windows, 6007. Double statue representing the god Ammon and
an Ethiopian "queen.

This group, which is of rough workmanship, was found in 1882 at
Naga (Meme) by Herr Berghoff', who some months later was captured and
beheaded by the Mahdi.

On the left side of the court are two large fragments of a granite
Naos, or shrine, with elaborate decorations and the name of King
Nectanebus II. In the corner to the left, 6002. Large eagle in
marble, from the island of Theme. To the left of the entrance to
the garden is a large Sphinx (No. 6008) in rose-coloured granite,
from Tanis in Lower Egypt; the cartouches of Ramses II. are a
later addition. To the right is a cast of the same figure (Pl. B).

We now enter the Garden To the right: 6013, 6014. Sarcophagi in grey granite from Sakkara, belonging to too brothers named
Takhos, who were high officials in the time of the first Ptolemies.



