296 Route 3'. CAIRO. Museum

Adjacent, 6015. Granite sarcophagus of Anklr-hapi, also from
Sakhara [ Greek period). Opposite are three marble sarcophagi of
the Grmco-Roman epoeh, from Alexandria.

Opposite the entrance of the Museum, in the middle of the
garden, is the Tomb of Mariette, who is interred in a marble sarcophagus made in the ancient style. The four small limestone
sphinxes in front of it are from the sacred avenue leading to the
Serapeum at Sankara (p. 351 } - Nearer the river, 6030, 6032. Two
sphinxes in rose-coloured granite from Karnak, with inscriptions
and the name of Thothmes Ill. (from Tunis). To the right (It): (5025.'Stele' or
sepulchral tablet, in limestone, with an inscription referring to
Ptah-hotep (5th dynasty; from Salilriraj. To the N., by the wall of
the Museum, are several sepulchral slabs and the sitting figure (in
grey granite; No. 6028 ] of the Princess Nefert, daughter of Usertesen I. (12th dynasty). In front, 0029. Sarcophagus in brownish
granite, found at Damanhur, with an inscription containing the
name of Psammetikh 11. [ 26th dynasty ].

The building of the Museum is painted blue, green, and red in
the manner of the Egyptian temples, and above the door is the
winged disk of the sun (see p. 133 ]. To the right and left of the
door are two seated granite figures from Tauis [ 6020, 6021), both
'usurped' by Ramses IL, Le. provided with his cartouohes, but
really of earlier origin (13th or 14th dynast

Petit Vestibule. Maspero's new Catalogue, several of Mariette's
works, and photographs of objects in the Museum are sold here.
The best collections of the latter are the Monuments Choisis du
Music de Boulaq ('25 fr., small size 15 fr.) and La Trouvaille de
De'ir el Bahan' (ist vol. 40 fr., 211d vol. 15 fr.). Sticks and umbrellas must be given up here.

The walls are covered with tombstones and hasreliefs t most of
them from Abydos and Salilgfira. Among the most interesting are:
No.21. Stole ofIIormin [ 90th dynasty). with a burial scene; 3. Stole
of Uunefer, who died at the age of 51 years, t month, and 27 days
(from Lulrsor); IO. Tombstone of Pa-ruler-haf, who died aged 57
years, IO months, and 4 days. - To the left, 8'2. 131150 of a column
in alabaster, with the cartonche of Ramses Ill., found at Tell cllehfitliyeh (Shibin el-lianitirj. In front is the capital of a porphyry column, with an inscription of a later date. Sarcophagi in
basalt and close-grained limestone, dating from the time of the
Ptolemies.

Grand vestibule. The walls are completely covered with'steles'
or sepulchral slabs, chiefly from Abydos. No. 165 Monument of
Phra-em-heb. In the uppermost row are two figures standing before
Osiris; in the second row, the mummy of Phra-em-heb is represented in an upright position before the tomb, while his sister embraces



