, of'Bts, W.t. CAIRO. 3. Route. 297

his knees; in the third field is a sacrificial scene (20th dynasty;
from FJa.k.kira) .--166. The gods Usurhapi, Ammon-Ra, Much, and
Khunsu receiving the sacrifice of a king, whose cartouche has been
left empty (from Salilshri). - 167. Tombstone of Eutef, with wellpreserved colouring (11th dynasty; from Thebes) .--292. The
scribe Anawa, major-demo of Memphis, in the act of worshipping
Turn and Harmachis Cloth dyn.; from Sa.k.kiraj. The inscription
is a hymn to the sun. - 330. Stele of Piankhi, son of Herhor,
high-priest of Ammon and viceroy of Ethiopia (21st dyn.; Abydos).
--378. Tombstone. In the uppermost field are represented Phrannem-emamf, the chief scribe of Autumn, and his wife Niuha'i7
priestess of Ammon, kneeling before the jackal Anubis; in the second row the deceased are seen arriving before Osiris and Isis; the
third field represents a sacrifice for the dead (20th dyn.; Saklgara ].
--420. Roma, keeper of the royal diadems and of the perfumes of
the royal treasury, with his wife Sukha, his daughter Tapu, and his
grandson Nihia'i, all in adoration before Osiris, lsis, and Horus. In
the second field Roma and Sukha receive sacrificial gifts from their
son Apii and other members of the family; the third contains a
hymn to Osiris [ 19th dyn.; Abydos) .--Nos. 199, 229, 255, and
3'27 are the best examples of steles of the 6th dynasty.

To the left, in the middle: iN. Statue of Sebek-em-saf, a
king of the 13th dynasty, in rose-coloured granite (from Abydos).
No. 445, used as a base for the last, is the shaft of a column in red
granite, inscribed with the 5th year of the reign of Mereuptah
[ tech dyno. Adjacent, to the left: 442. Tai and his wife Nai,
sitting figures in limestone; at the back the same figures are represented in the act ofreceiving sacrificial gifts from Time, priestess
of Ammon (Nth dyn.; Sakhara). - In the middle of the room, to
the right: *468. Alabaster Statue of Queen Amene-ritis, on a base
of grey granite. The cartouches are these of her father liashta and
her brother Shabako (25th dyn.; Karnak). - *465. Lion, admirably
ponrtrayed in bronze, with the cartouches of King Apries of the
26th dynasty, probably designed to adorn a staircase. - 469. Group
of Ammon and Math, dedicated by Seti l, (19th dyn.; Thebes).

At the sides of the door leading to the Sake du Centre are two
large limestone steles, inscribed with the name of Ramses IV. and
with hymns to various deities. In front, 285, 285. Two limestone
figures, in a crouching posture, of Khai, keeper of the treasures in
the mortuary chapel of Ramses U. No. 285 holds a small shrine
with an image of Osiris, and No. 286 another with an image of Pa.
- By the four pilasters are finely-executed sarcophagi in basalt
and limestone. 409. Limestone coffin of a woman named Ankh;
160. Coffin in green basalt of a woman named Betaitzn7 both of the
Ptolemaic period. Opposite, 284, 287. Coffin and lid of mr-ernheb, dating from the Sa'ite period o. 91), and covered inside and
out with funereal representations and inscriptions.



