298 Route 3. CAIRO. Museum

We now turn to the left and enter the
Salle historique de l'Ouest. This room contains historical stole:
of various epochs and also the monuments of the period of the
Hyksos (p. 88), which is represented in Europe by a solitary head
in the Villa Ludovisi at Rome. - In the centre of the room: "" 107.
Ilyksos Sphinx in black granite, from Tanis, the restored parts recognisable by their darker hue.

The head shows the coarse and foreign-looking features of the race
which oppressed Egypt for so long a period. An inscription on the right
shoulder, almost efl'aced, mentions Apepi (Apophis), one of the last Hyksos
kings. Merenptah. the Pharaoh of the Exodus, and Ramses ll. subsequently caused their names to be inscribed on the base, and Museums,
of the Elst dynasty, engraved his on the breast of the statue.

106. Head of a sphinx, resembling No. 107, with the name of
Merenptah, added at a later date. - 108. Sacrificial tablet of black
granite, with the name of the Hyksos king Apepi. - too. Torso
of a Hyksos statue in grey granite, found at Mit Fares in the Fayr'nn,
and thus proving that the Hyksos dominion extended at least as
far as this district.

123. Double statue of grey granite, found at Tanis and dating
from the Hyksos period.

Two foreign-looking figures are standing before the sacrificial tables,
which are lavishly adorned with aquatic plants fBasphttiv), fishes, and
birds. The features of the figures resemble those of the sphinxes; their
matted beards, their plaited hair, and the bracelets on their arms distinguish them strongly from the figures on other Egyptian monuments.
The name of Psusennes, engraved both on the from and on the back of
the monument, was added at a later date.

**89. Stale of the Diadoch, in black granite, found in 1870
among the ruinous foundations of the mosque of Shtklnh1 in Cairo.

In the arch above the proper inscription is a representation of Ptolemy I. Lagi (p. 96), before his accession to the throne. He is still styled
a'satrap' here, but the empty eartouches adjoining his figure seem to
indicate that he is free to ascend the throne. On the left he is consecrat
ing to Horus, the avenger of his father, a piece of planted land a

and on the right he is presenting gifts to Isis-Buto, the tutelary goddess
of the cities of l'eh and Top. The inscription extols the satrap Ptolemy
as a hero, who brought back from Asia to the Nile the treasures removed
from the temples of Egypt, and who fixed his residence in the'Fortress
of' J., which was formerly called Itlzalrotis' (1.2. Alexandria).
llis victories over in and the western regions of Egypt, and his benefieenue to the gods of Egypt are also praised, and there follows a eulogium of his liberality in renewing a grant to the goddesses (he. to the
priests) of the cities of Feb and Top, the so-called quarters of Buto,
whose worship had been abolished by the'Arch-enemy Xerxes'.

"127. Celebrated monument of the time of Thotlnncs 111, in
black granite [ 19th ilym; Kamali)

The upper part of the inscription was erased hy some other early
monarch. but was afterwards restored. perhaps by Ramses 11. The traces
of this double change are distinctly visible on the Iilvper ihnrhrthe stclet
lhvlnw is an inscription in'25 lines celebrating the victories of Thothmes ill.
in a highly poetic manner. This monument was often copied by sub"equent dynasties to celebrate the exploits of Seti I. and Ramses ill.






