.

of Bill?,. CAIRO. 3. Route. 299

101. Portrait-head in dark granite of Taharka (the Tirhakah of
the Bible), the Ethiopian conqueror 25th dyn.); negro cast of features, nose mutilated.

The following steles are also of historical interest: 98. Stele of
Piankhi, in grey granite, covered with inscriptions (23rd dyn.;
Gebel-Barkal).

In the 6th cent. before Christ the power of the Ethiopian monarchs
extended to Thebes, while several native princes still maintained themselves in N. Egypt. One of these named Tefnekht (p. 91) organises a rising
against the nsnrper Piankhi, but is finally conquered and forced to yield
to the Ethiopian, who, after pacifying the country, returns to his capital
Napata.

99. Stele of Hor-sa-tef, in grey granite, from the end of the
Persian period (Gebel-Barkal).

The king gives an account of the wars carried on by him against the
tribes dwelling between Abyssinia, Dar-fur, and the Red Sea, particularly
of the expedition to the Gehcl-Barkal in the 6th year of his reign.

114. The so-called Coronation Stole, on which the name of the
king has been effaced .--- 122. Stele of Amen-meri-nut, recounting a campaign undertaken by him at the instigation of a dream.
- 112. Tablet known as the Stele of Excommunication. These
three steles were all found at Gehel-Barkal.

In the corner of the room: 97. Door-post of grey basalt, with
the name and titles of Tau, brother of Queen Ila-meri-ankh-ens,
wife of Pepi I. [ 6th dyn.; Abydos ] .--127. Limestone stele, with
inscriptions on each face and the cartouches of Usertesen III. and
Amenemha m. (12th dyn.; Abydos ].

The rose--coloured granite door, leading from the Grand Vestibule to the Salle du Centre, was found at Abydos, amid the ruins
of an ancient temple of Osiris. The central portion bears the cartouche of Seti L, while at the sides are full-length figures of the
same monarch.

Salle du Centre. Along the walls are arranged twelve cabinets,
containing statuettes of the Egyptian deities in bronze, stone, and
porcelain, and objects connected with the burial ceremonies of the
Egyptians. To the left, Case B: Osiris and Apis. 2490. Apishull with the sacred triangle on its forehead; 249752502. Apis
steles, in limestone, from the Serapeum at'Salil.ritra; 2494. Serapis
(human body with the head of a hull ], 243-1. Relief of the transportation of a dead Apis, with figures of Isis and Nephthys to the
right and left of the reliquary.

Case C. 2416. Statuette of Osiris in limestone, with fragments
of the kneeling figures of a brother and sister, each presenting a
sacrificial tablet; 241:3. Hawk with the crown of Upper and Lower
Egypt; 2386. Upper part of: t Sceptre, consisting of a lotus blossom
and a hawk; 2381. Upright mummy of Osiris in basalt; 2383. Stele
with relief of an Osiris mummy; on the arch at the top is the sun
(a red disk with a searahatuf), while to the right and left are two
dog-faced baboons in an attitude of adoration. 2359. Harpocrates



