14 EQUIPMENT.

expense for each member of it, while for a single traveller a dragomau is of course a very costly appendage.

In conclusion, we may add that most of the dragomans are fond
of assuming a patronising manner towards their employers, while
they generally treat their own countrymen with an air of vast
superiority. The sooner this impertinence is checked, the more
satisfactory will he the traveller's subsequent relations with his
guide; and the hints already given with reference to the traveller's
intercourse with the natives may not unfrequently be applied to
the dragumans themselves. On the successful termination of the
journey travellers are too apt from motives of good nature to write
a more favourable testimonial for their dragoman than he really
deserves; but this is truly an act of injustice to his subsequent
employers, and tends to confirm him in his faults. The testimonial
therefore should not omit to mention any serious cause for dissatisfaction. Information with regard to dragomans (name, languages
spoken. conduct, and charges) will always be gratefully received
by the Editor of the llandhook for the benefit of later editions.

(8) Equipment for the Tour.

Dunes. It is less important now than it formerly was to purchase every requirement for the journey before leaving home, as
the traveller can easily supplement his outfit at some of the modern
shops of Alexandria or Cairo. For all ordinary purposes a couple
of light Tweed suits, a few flannel and soft cotton shirts, a supply
of thin woollen socks, one pair of light and easy boots, one of shoes,
and one ot'slippers, a moderately warm Ulster orlong travelling cloak,
a pith-helmet and a soft felt hat, together with the most necessary
articles of the toilet, will amply suffice. It is advisable, for the prevention of colds and chills, to wear a woollen fabric next. the skin;
but light underclothiug, with an Oxford shirt, will be found more
suitable to the climate than a heavy flannel shirt. Those who intend
making a prolonged stay at the principal towns may add a dress-suit
and a few white shirts. If a muslin'puggaree' he used for covering
the hat, it should be made to fall over the back of the neck and ears
as broadly as possible. This favourite European head-dress, however,
invariably attracts hosts of importunate candidates for'bahshish'.
Home travellers prefer the fez or turbdsh, a red cloth skull-cap
with black-silk tassel (7-1-15 fr.), over which, in native fashion, they
tie a silk kell'iyeh (manufactured in Egypt, 15-20 flu), falling down
behind in a triangle. This head-dress protects the neck and cheeks
admirably against the scorching Egyptian sun, especially when a
folded handkerchief or a white skull-cap f.t0lityelO is worn under
the turhfish. In prolonged riding tours, a sun-shade is a fatiguing
encumbrance. All these articles should be new and strongly made,
as it is often difficult and troublesome to get repairs properly oxe




