of name, CAIRO. 3. Route. 305

In the centre of the room: "3961. Statue of King Kltcfrcn or
Khafre, the builder of the second pyramid, found in the well of
the granite temple near the Great Sphinx (p. 365).

The king is represented in life-size, sitting on a throne, the arms of
which terminate in lions" heads. At the sides of the seat are papyrus

and lotus plants intertwined around the symbol of union, which indi
cates the junction of Upper with Lower Egypt, and is perhaps emblematical of the transition from this life to the next. On the pedestal, to the
right and left of the feet of the statue, is inscribed in distinct hieroglyphic characters:'The prince and victorious Horus, lihafra, the good
god and lord of the diadem'. In his right hand the monarch holds a
roll of papyrus. On the top of the back of the throne is ahawk, protecting the king's head with its outspread wings. The torso is of a mere
thickset type than is the case with the statues of the modern empire,
having been modelled in accordance with the rules prescribed by the
hieratic canon at that early period, and the whole figure breathes a spirit
of strength and repose. The muscles of the breast and legs are reproduced with wonderful accuracy. The statue is made of an extremely
hard diorite, the difficulty of working which has been overcome by the
artist in a marvellous manner.

"3962),. (railed in) Wooden Statue from Sahlczira known as the
Slse" icls ct-beled Cvirlage-iyl1ierJ, a name given to it by the Arabs on
account of its resemblance to a well-fed specimen of that modern

functionary.

The figure, which dates from the early part of the old empire, Moms

'G pmof chat the Egyptian sculptors were quite capable of executing really
artistic work whenever they could shake "the fetters of their rigid
came The individuality and realism of this figure will afford a pleasant
surprise to those who have found it difficult to admire the stifl' conventional forms of Egyptian art. The feet, which had been broken off, are
restored, but the rest of the figure is in its original condition. The upper part of the body and the legs are bare, while from the hips hangs a
kind of apron folded in front. In the hand is the long rod of office. The
round head with its short hair, and the portrait-like, good-natured face
are remarkably life-like. The eyes, which have a somewhat rigid expression, were put in, as in the case of other similar statues, after the
work was completed. They consist of pieces of opaque white quartz with
pupils formed of rock-crystal, in the centre of which is placed a polished
metal knob for the double purpose of securing them and giving them
light and sparkle; and they are framed with thin plates of bronze, the
edges of which form the eyelids. The figure was originally covered with
a thin coating of plaster of Paris and painted. _ The female torso in the
Selle de lAncien Empire (NI). 1044) was found in the grave of the Shekh
el-Beled and probably represents his wife.

"5243. Statue of Hathor, the goddess of the infernal regions,
bending her head, adorned with the disk and double feather, protectingly over the deceased Psametik. Nos, 5945 (Osiris), 5246
(Isis), and 59.44 (sacrificial slab) were found in the same tomb.

This group, executed in green basalt, and found at Salilriira, is one
of the best works of the 26th dynasty. The heads are remarkably attractive, but the treatment of the other parts of the hotly is much inferior to that of the ancient empire. The technical execution, however,
shows the utmost care and ski ] 7

By the N. wall, behind the statue of Ixhefren, are numerous
Canopi (see p. 301). .----'18". Small stele in black basalt, representing'lIorus on the crocodiles' -, the inscription contains magical

BAEDEKER'S Egypt I. 2nd Ed. 20














