of Bamt. CAIRO. 3. Route. 307

interior is adorned with numerous inscriptions and scenes relating
to the dead, most of them in good preservation.

In the middle of the 5. Wall: *975. Statue of Ra-nefcr, a priest,
wearing a wig (in limestone). The muscles of the arms and breast
are executed with great realism, and the statue ranks among
the most perfect specimens of Egyptian art Léth dyn.; Sahhéra).
--To the right 974. Basaltic statue of King Khefren at a more
advanced age than in No. 3961 (p. 305); the statue, which was
found with the latter in the granite temple near the Sphinx has
been freely restored. - 3964. A large and very perfectly executed
sarcophagus in rose-coloured granite, of great antiquity, which once
contained the remains of a priest of Apis named Khufu-ankh.

The sides recall the domestic rather than the sepulchral style of architecture, but in Egypt these styles were similar in many respects. The
ancient Egyptians used to call their earthly dwellings'inns' or'lodgings',
while they styled their tombs'everlasting houses'. The ends of the beams,
resembling triglyphs, should be noticed.

965. Similar but plainer sarcophagus, prepared for Prince
970. Similar sarcophagus with the angles rounded, bearing the name of Prince Kamskhem. These three sarcophagi were
all found near the Pyramids of Gizeh and date from the time of
the 4th dynasty.

Adjacent, by the W. Wall: 885. Stele of limestone, with an
inscription of 50 lines, in which the deceased Uni records his exploits under the three Pharaohs, Teta, 1'ep1L, andMer-eu-ra, ineluding his work on the pyramids constructed by the last two kings
(both in Sakhara opened in 1880- 81; romp. p. 402. - 882,
celebrated tombstone of the 25th dynasty, probably a copy of an
original of the 4th dynasty.

The inscription is a record by King Cheops of various works and
restorations carried out by him. It contains a representation of the great
Sphinx of Gizeh, with an intimation'that the dwelling of the Sphinx
Hanna.. lies to the S. of the temple of Isis and to the N. of the temple









Also on the S. side of the room are various fragments from
tombs at Sakhira, with scenes of great life and humour. 887.
Boatmen, engaged in the transportation of fruit and other provisions, fall into a quarrel and attack each other with the Durst 889.
In the upper row are represented the various stages in the making
of bread; below are slaves pouring wine into jars. 890. Shepherds
conducting their flocks across the inundated fields, and soaring off
the crocodiles, which lurk amid the reeds, by loud cries and
gestures. 908. Fruit-seller teasing an ape, which has seized him
by the leg.

W. Wall. 958. The two upper rows represent field workers,
the third the making of wine and bread. In the lowest row are
goldsmiths weighing gold and sculptors at work with their polishing
stones. - 959. Shepherds posturing their flocks; below, shepherds
and fishermen preparing for a meal. - To the right and left of

20*



