308 Route 3. CAIRO. luseum

the door, 881, 1040. Steles from the grave of Sabu at Sahhfira
(p. 400.

The first of these represents the deceased sitting at a table covered
with slaughtered cattle, eggs, flowers. fruit. and other offerings, which
are being brought in by servants; on the other slab we see Sub" seated
in a kind of litter, while a number of men and women are bringing
their gifts to the tomb. Below are represented the cutting up of
slaughtered oxen, the deceased navigating the Nile, and his cattle being
driven before him to be counted. All these scenes are intended to
imply that in the next world the just continue the same life as they
lived in this, but in a state of greater felicity.

In front of the steles. 986, 988. Two sacrificial tables in
alabaster.

Two lions support each of the tables in a slightly tilted position, so
that the libations ran down into a vase placed between the tails of the
lions (4th dyn. ].

The door on the E. side of the Salle du Centre leads to the
Salle Funéraire. which contains wooden sarcophagi from Thebes,
chiefly belonging to the priests of Mentu, and also others found
in 1884 in the necropolis of Akhmim (Panopolis). To the right
and left are two large octagonal glass-cases containing scarabzei,
amulets of glass, enamelled clay, and cornelian, and objects used
in the adornment of the dead.

Cases AN, A0, and AP. contain scarabzei, the line" of which
are No. 4572, in felspar; No. 4567, in gold; and No. 4566, in
light-coloured serpentine, of very delicate workmanship.

Case A0. contains figures of deities in bronze. 4585. Isis, with
winged arms raised in an attitude of protection; the indented portions were formerly filled with enamel. 4587. Two wooden tablets
with figures of the god Bess.

Case All. Scarabzei, the emblem of the heart, found in the
bodies of mummies whence the heart had been removed, and other
smaller scarabroi, made of cornelian and granite. 4555. Heart
with a man's head in amethyst, perhaps dating from the 11th dynasty; 4562. Amulets in the form of outstretched fingers, probably
interred with the mummy to avert the evil eye (26th dynJ. Case AS. contains objects in bronze, used as ornaments for the
heads of small statues. including Ammon and Osiris feathers, Isis
horns, false boards, and the like. - Case AT. Pectorals, or coolesiastical breast-ornaments, in the form of shrines, some of them
inlaid with glass. 4333. Scarabteus in blue enamel, with expanded wings; 4328. Scarabzeus made of coloured glass beads; 4327.
Scarabzcus in perforated work.

Case A U. Small seeptres in wood and bronze. 4274. Peetoral
plate, representing lsis on a lotus between two winged serpents;
4303. linkupha, or sceptre of wood; 4'271, head of Isis
with the solar disk and horns; 4278. Small aegis of quartz.

W. Side. Cabinet AE. Wooden chests in the shape of a naos,
wooden statuettes of () siris, chains ofcornelian, glass. and other
beads. 11402. Fragment of a frieze found in Tell el-Yehfidiyeh,





