310 Route 3, CAIRO Museum

mosaic; 4091. Four female heads, of a light-blue colour; 4090.
Two jackals, in obsidian; 4099. Two plates of gold, engraved with
amulets.

Section AI. So-called ut'a eyes, in various materials.

These amulets are emblematical of the eyes of Ra which illumine
the world (p. 128), the right eye being called the sun, and the left
the moon; the former also symbolising the king, and the latter the
queen. The dead, when rising from their graves, are represented as
ut'a eyes .---- Small head-rests, symbolical of the eternal restingplace of pure souls. - Small columns in green felspar or earthenware, emblematical of the renewed spring or rejuvenescence of the
deceased.

Section A ]. Paste imitations of precious stones, works in glass,
and mosaics. Among the last are an ape, a human head, and small
star-shaped flowers; if split into thin sheets, each layer of the
mosaic shows the same pattern. Small tortoise, executed with great
care and truth to nature.

Section AK. Hares, crocodiles, hedgehogs, cows, and other
animals in enamelled clay, cornelian, agate, and lapis lazuli. 4163.
Elephant (rare); 4173. Ape leaning on its elbow, a work showing
a good deal of humour.

Section AL. Cornelian rings and serpents. In the middle,
Collection of small ornaments for a necklace, several of which, in
the shape of cartonchcs, bear the name of Ramses 11.

Section AM. Amulets and emblems:, Tat, the symbol of

constancy; o the heart;, the symbol of life 0).

Section AP. Amulets: Eh rising of the sun; emblem of the

the goddess Neith; E, A emblems ofimpartiality; a symbol of
the clothing of the dead in the other world; etc.

W. Wall. Cabinet Z. 4480. Wooden figure of the ancient kingdom. 4846. Small round naos in terracotta, found at Abydos;
over the door is a frieze of nrmus snakes, while round the exterior
runs a series of scenes representing Osiris receiving sacrifices and
worship from a family of Abydos. 4919. Large two-handled terracotta vase, with the inscription'Year 33, wine prepared for transportation'. 4876. Small models of votive offerings in terracotta.
bearing the name of the scribe Nib. The case also contains a collection of terracotta moulds for the preparation of amulets and
figures in glazed earthenware At the top of the case are alabaster
vases, of the most varied shapes

N. Wall. Cabinet AA. Palettes for scribes andgpainters, combs,



