312 Route 3. CAIRO. Museum
Ta-u-hert, priestess of Amman [ let dyno. 5207. Double coffin
of Pinetcm 111., son of IIest-em-sekhet, and of Men-kheper-ra, two
high-priests of Ammon (let dyno. - On the other side of the
passage: 5208. Outer ease of the mummy of Queen IIest-em-sekhet.
5209. Double coffin of Princess Nesi-Khunsu. 5210. Exterior
mummy-case of Queen Remake and her daughter Mutemhat, 5211.
Double coffin of Tet-Ptah-auf-ann, priest of Ammon (find dynJ.
5912. Double coffin (blackened with bitumen at a later period)
of Nesi-ta-neb-asher, priestess of Ammon (2'an dyn.). 5213.
Coffin of Thothmes HI. (18th dyn.), much injured and robbed of
its rich gilding. 5215. Coffin of Queen Heut-ta-ui C21st dyn. )--By the pillars: 5947. Large mummy-case or'cartonage', in the shape
of Osiris7 of Queen Ahmes-nefer-ateri, wife of Amosis J. 5222.
Mummy-ease of Queen Aah-hotep, wife of Amenophis I. and mother
of Amosis 1. (similar to the last; see p. 302).

Both these cases are of huge she and are formed of innumerable
layers of linen cloth, tightly pressed and glued together and covered with
a thin coating of Human The solid mass of linen thus prepared is at
least as hard as wood, and is adorned with painted and incised ornaments

and inscriptions. Each of the mummies wears a wig, surmounted by a
crown and double feather.

between the pillars and the N. Wall stands Cabinet AY, the
upper shelf of which contains a bronze pedestal with four vases for
libations. inscribed with the name of Queen lIest-em-sekhet. Adjacent is a wooden chest for containing statuettes of Osiris, hearing
the cartouches of Pinetem 11. Below are two shelves with Osiris
statuettes, in blue glazed clay, dedicated to the memory of Pinetem n., Masaherta, Pinetem 111., TU-Ptah-auf-ankle, Host--eulsekhet, Nesi-lihunw, Remake, Nesi-ta-neb-asher,

and Ta-m-hen. - Lower down are several votive gifts found with
the mummy of Ihyst-em-sekhet. 5261. Ivory casket with inscriptions and the cartouches of Ramses IN. _ 6262. (lowest shelf but
one), False mummy of a child, fabricated at a very remote period
by thieves, to take the place of the real one; the mummy-case bears
the name of Princess Setamn, (laughter ofAmosisI. (18th dyno. Ad
Jacent are two small oars found with the mummy of Thothmes III.
At the bottom of the cabinet are several finely-executed canopi'.

Cabinet 13 ]), between the pillars and the S. wall. On the uppermost shelf are two wigs belonging to Queen llest-em-sekhet, and
between them a small wooden hex with the eartouehes ofl'inetem ll.
Second shelf: Osiris statuettes. Third shelf: Fruits of the ddm
palm, rais Is, and dates; small vases in blue glazed earth bearing
the name of Princess Nesi-Khunsu; similar vases of glass paste,
green, blue. or black and white. 5248. Casket in wood and ivory
with the eartuuohes of Queen Hatasu (18th dyn.). 5249. Fragment
of the coffin of Ramses I. Fourth shelf: 5250. Mummy of Sokarem-saf, found in 1881 in the pyramid built by this king at Sa.k.kira
J'th 11) n.).





