, of Bl'tmlc. CAIRO. 3. Route. 313

Cabinets AZ and BC, placed at the foot of the pillars, opposite
each other, contain wigs, boxes made of the papyrus reed, vases
for libations, and leaves and flowers found with royal mummies,
which have been prepared and described by Dr. Schweinfurth.

In the centre of the room is a large Funereal Bed, intended for
the reception of the mummy

The feet of the bed, which was found in Thebes and belongs to the
11th dynasty, are formed of two lions. The mummy, which is of later date,
is that of a priestess of Ammon, daughter of Prince Takelot (23rd dynJ.
5221. Exact reproduction, on a reduced scale (one-third) of
the tent or canopy of the mummy of 1lest-em-selihet, painted by
MM. Brugsch and Bouriant.
The original, which is made of dyed leather, has been so damaged,

that it cannot be exhibited until it has undergone a long and costly process of restoration.

N. Wall, within the recess with panelled sides. 5227. Coffin
of Rasekenen HI. (end of the 17th dyn.), 5298. Wooden coffin of
Amosis I. (18th dyn.),
the head wearing a mask. In the corner: *5202. Richly gilded lid of
the coffin of Aah-hotep, mother of Amosis 1. (17th dyn.; p. 312).

E. Wall. 5231. Coffin and mummy of Thothmes H. le'th dyno;
5232. Coffin and mummy of Seti L, father of Ramses the Great
(19th dyn.).

The two inscriptions on the coffin record that in the 16th year of
King Siam" the mummy was removed from the tomb of Seti L, and that
in the 10th year of the highrpriest Piaetem it was again removed and
transferred to the tomb of Amenophis l.

Adjacent, *5234. Coffin of Netem-Mut. mother of King Horhor
(20th dyn.), finely executed but in a very dilapidated condition;
the ornamentation and inscriptions are inlaid with coloured glass.

S. Wall. 5235. Inner case with the mummy of Queen Hest-emsekhet; 3236. Inner case and mummies of Queen Remake and her
daughter Mutemhat, who died at the same time. 5237. Coffin and
mummy of Nebsenui, a priestly scribe; this mummy is in wonderful preservation, even the eye-lashes are visible. 5238. Coffin and
mummy of Pinetean IL, with teeth ground to a point.

The two Stands contain eight other mummies, also found in 1881.

Salle Grew-Romaine. This room contains mummies and tombstones of the Grmco-Roman period, Greek and C'optic inscriptions,
and numerous smaller relics, arranged in eight cabinets. To the
right of the entrance, $ 5400. The famous Decree of Campus (pp.
447, 455), found at Tanis (and usually called the Tablet of Tunis,
to distinguish it from another copy in the Louvre).

This tablet confirmed the correctness of the method of deciphering
discovered by the celebrated Champollion, and employed by Egyptologists since the finding of the Rosetta stone (p. 1150). On the limestone
pillar are inscribed three diiferent versions of the some decree, above
it appears in hieroglyphics, or the Ancient Egyptian written language,



