HEALTH. 15

outed in Egypt. White shirts, collars, and wristbands, which require
frequent and skilful washing, should he as far as possible eschewed,
as good laundresses are rare and expensive (2-4 fr. per dozen articles,
irrespective of size). Few travellers walk in Egypt, except for very
short distances, but sportsmen should add a stout pair of waterproof
shooting-boots to their equipment. "

For tours on horse or camel-back two small portmanteaus are
much more suitable than a box or trunk of larger size.

lllfsCELLAXEOUS. Among the most important extras are a drinking
cup of leather or metal, a flask, a strong pocket-knife, note-books,
writing-materials, straps and twine, a thermometer, a pocket-compass of medium size, and a supply of magnesium wire for lighting
caverns and dark chambers. To these may perhaps be added a
'remontoir', or keyless watch, as a watch-key lost during the journey
is not easily replaced.

HEALTH. Fine as the climate of Egypt generally is, the chilly
mornings and evenings are often treacherous, and if cold is caught
it is apt to result in a tedious intermittent or other fever. There
are good chemists at Alexandria and Cain), from whom small medicine-chests adapted for the climate may be purchased. In serious
cases of illness a European doctor, when procurable, should always
be consulted, as the traveller's own experience acquired at home is
of little avail in the climate of Egypt.

Fits of shivering are the usual prelude to an attack of fever. Quinine is the best remedy, of which 1-3 doses should be taken on the days
when the patient is free from fever. Rest and copious perspiration will
also afford relief.

Diarrhea, which is apt to turn to dysentery, is a very common complaint in this climate. and is generally the result of eating unripe fruit
or of catching cold. The patient should first take a slight aperient, and
afterwards tincture of opium or concentrated tincture of camphor. A
simple farinaceous diet (such as well-boiled rice), with tea or well
matured, unfortified, and unsweetened red wine, will be beneficial, while
fruit, meat, and fatty substances should be avoided. In cases both of
diarrhea and fever all remedies are sometimes unavailing except change
of climate, especially if the patient is in a marshy or unhealthy locality.

Sprains, which often result from exploring ruins and caverns, are
most effectually treated with cold compresses, while the injured limb
should be tightly bandaged and allowed perfect rest.

The sting of a scorpion (seldom dangerous) or bite of a snake is
usually treated with ammonia.

Sunstroke is very common in Egypt, even in spring when the air is
still cool. The head and neck should therefore always be carefully
shielded in one of the ways above indicated. The usual remedies are
rest and shade, cold compresses, and warm baths with cold douches
applied to the head and neck.

Grey spectacles or veils may be used with advantage when the eyes
suffer from the glare of bright weather. Zinc eye-wash, or some other
innocuous lotion, should be used in such cases.

The sticking-plaster, lint, as well as all effervescing powders, and
other medicines carried by the traveller should be carefully kept from
exposure to moisture.



