314 Route 3. CAIRO. Museum

below in Greek, and on the margins in the popular dialect written in
the Demotic character. The decree was pronounced by an assembly of
the priests in the temple of Canopus on Tth March (l'ith Tyhi), 13.0. 238,
in the reign of Ptolemy III. Euergetes 1.: l it praises the king for having
brought back the images of the gods from Asia, gained many victories, preserved peace in the land, and saved it from imniinentfamine by his forethought in importing corn; and it concludes with a resolution that the
assembly shall call itself'the priesthood of the Euergetes of the gods', found
a. new sacerdotal caste to he named after Euergetes, institute new festivals
in honour of the king and queen, and introduce an improvement in the
popular calendar. It is also resolved to pay permanent honour in all
the temples throughout the country to the Princess Berenice, who died young
and unmarried, and to celebrate certain festivals yearly to her memory.
In all temples of the first and second rank costly and beautiful statues
were to be erected to the'princess of virgins', to which various services were to be rendered and offerings presented. Her praises were to be
sung by specially trained choirs, and chiefly by virgins, and the bread
provided for the priestesses was to he stamped'bread of Berenice'.
The inscriptions lastly declare that the decree is to be inscribed on slabs
of bronze or of stone in the holy (hieroglyphic), IIIe Egyplirm IdeIIIoI
IIIII the Greek languages, and to be exhibited conspicuously in every
temple of the first and second rank.

To the left of the door, 5401. Another'copy of the same decree
found at Tell (Lower Egypt) in 1881. The representations
above the inscriptions show the royal family in adoration before the
gods of Egypt. - 5457. Coptic inscription found at Dér el-llahri
in a grave used as a chapel. The text consists of a tirade against
heretics and the usual prayer for the emperor and his family. 5466. Fragment of a marble stele with the names of certain citizens of Memphis, who had erected a monument to a high functionary in the temple of Main 5455. Coffin in baked clay, of the Byzantine epoch, found at Syene0kssuin). Rectangular coffin of lead,
of the Grzeeo-ltoman period, found at Alexandria. 5426. Stole of
the 26th dynasty, representing King Apries offering a sacrifice to
Ptah-Stoker-Osiris; on the upper margin, to the right, is a Carian
inscriptiOn which has not yet been deciphered. - 5402. Stele of
the Persian period, representing a god standing on a lion and hearing on his head the disk of the sun and the crescent of the moon;
at the sides are lunar crescent: surmounted by ears.

5566. White marble statue of a Roman lady, found at Tell
Mokhdam. This figure stands on No. 5565, a quadrangular base of
red granite, with a Greek inscription dedicated to Antinous by a
governor of Thebes. - Opposite, 5563. Block of Close-grained sandstone, with a frieze containing the cartouclies of Psarnrnetichus I.
and Shabako. Below is a long Greek inscription with the names of
the emperors Valens, Valentiniau, and Gratin".

5613, 5014. I 061- } Two mummies found at Sakkara, dating from the
latest period and adorned with reliefs of Christian and Egyptian
emblems (3rd or 4th cent. of the present eral. - 5574. Lid of the
mummy-ease of a sacred ram, found in 1871 at Tmai el-Amdid,
the ancient Mandes. The ornamentation includes representations
of the twelve hours of the day and night. - 5515. Porphyry bust








