- W.
316 Route 3. CAIRO. Museum

the arms pressed against the breast and holding a butterfly. _ The
two lower shelves contain modern reproductions of stone and bronze
figures, small steles, and scarabzei, most of them manufactured in
Jieneh and Thebes. The terracotta figures in the lowest shelf but
one, resembling those of Tanagra, were found at Alexandria, in
tombs of the Ptolemaic period.

The cabinet adjoining the N.W. pillar contains trinkets of silver
and gold, a beautifully executed little stole in felspar, a'Ilorus on
the crocodiles', and two tambourines found in Akhmim. In the lower
part of the cabinet are two slabs of serpentine (No. 6106), found
at Coptos in 1883, which contain fragments of a long inscription
recording a series of works carried out by Roman soldiers under
Augustus. The rest of the inscription has not been discovered.

Opposite is a cabinet containing terracotta figures, a figure of
Anubis in blue glazed earth, and ivory plaques for caskets with
reliefs. Below is a collection of weights in stone and bronze. This
cabinet also contains a pair of scales.

The Salle Historique de PEst contains several hundred steles
or tombstones, chiefly found at Abydos, S; am, and Thebes, but
a few also at Tell el-Amarna. - In the middle of the room (No. 872)
is the celebrated Tablet of Suicltdm.

This tablet was found in 1861 in a half-ruined mortuary chapel at
Satu.dhr1, On one side is inscribed a hymn to Osiris and on the other a
list of 53 kings, in two rows, beginning with Meribah (ist dyn) and ending with Ramses IL The list is unfortunately very imperfect.

870, 871. Two blocks of close-grained sandstone, intended for
votive offerings; on the upper margin of the lateral faces is an inscription mentioning the name of Ameni Antef Ameuemha, an unknown king of the 13th or 14th dynasty (Karnak). - 497. Stele
of the period of Khu-en-aten (18th Gym). 488. Serpent in black
granite, with the cartonches of King Amenhotep 111., who erected
it as a guardian of the temple at Athribis (the modern Benha). 92, 493. Two basreliefs found in old Memphis and showing some
of the most delicate workmanship of the Sa'ite period. The one represents the scribe I'mmtik-nefer-sa-mer superintending the transportation of gold ornaments intended for his tomb; the other shows
him receiving votive offerings.

E. Wall. In the corner to the right, 600. Granite statue of
Thothmes 111. [ 18th dyn.). (HO. Fine head in black granite with
mild and regular features, held by Mariette to be the Pharaoh of
the Exodus (Merenptah), but according to Maspero the Pharaoh
Horemheb; *617. Head of hard limestone found in the temple of
Karnak; other fragments found almost exactly in the same spot
make it probable that this is the head of the wife or daughter of
King 1loroanheb. - To the left, (342. Bust of Amenophis u. (15th
dyn.) -, NU); "call of a king (i8-20th dynJ.

N. Wall. In the centre. 721. Large granite statue of the Roman
period, found at'l'anis. [ n a niche to the right,'3963. Figure



