V

of Thueris in green serpentine, in the form of a hippopotamus
(Thebes); this goddess was the guardian of departed souls and her
forbidding appearance was supposed to drive away evil spirits. The
figure is well preserved and its technical execution is admirable.

S. Wall. 111 the centre, 561. Limestone statue of AmenhotepIIL,
with inlaid eyes. To the left, by the adjacent window, is a dtun..
palm found in a tomb at Thebes in 1884, with a head of Hathor and
a hieroglyphical inscription. In front, Naos covered with inscriptions
and representations relating to That, including a dog-faced ape
(p. 134). - Large stele, covered on both sides with inscriptions
and bearing the cartouches of King Usertesen (12th dyn.)

The Museum of 131nm; also possesses a large collection of Papyri,
including a number of valuable scrolls found at Dér el-Buhri. Unfortunately there is at present little space for their exhibition, so that

most of them, as well as numerous other monuments, have for the
present at least to be kept in the store-rooms.

OLD CAIRO. J. Route. 317

' 4. Environs of Cairo.

Old Cairo, 01111111, Shubra, Heliopolis, and the Pyramids of Gizeh
are most conveniently visited by carriage, and the llIolgattaLn hills, Noses'
Well, the Petrified Forest, and Gebel e1-Allmar on donlrey » hack. The
first » named excursions may also of course be made on the back of a donkey, but this mode of travelling is more fatiguing.



Old Cairo { Mas'r elJAlilca).

Fumm el-Khalfy. Old Water Conduit. Christian Cemeteries. Island
of 11131111. Castle of Babylon. Coptic Church of St. Mary. (Mmi'
rAmr. Tombs of the Mamclukcs. HOsh el-Ehha.

Traversing the new town of Isma'iliya (p. 259) towards the
S.W., we proceed by the Boulevard'Abdul'Ads, the Rand-Point
Bab el-Llib, and the Square of that name (beautifully planted with
flowers of the Turkish national colours), to an open space, from
which a road to the S. leads to the Nile Bridge (p. 3'28). Here we
turn to the left and follow the Boulevard Fay"Ali. () n the left,
at the corner, we observe the Palace of 11115211 Pasha (brother of
the Khedive), surrounded by lofty walls. Opposite, to the right,
are the new Palais'snur" iltyeh (PI. 81; E, 6) and the large palace
Kuer ed-Dubara CPI. 83), both belonging to the Khedive. To the
left, surrounded with pleasure-grounds, is the Ministry of Public
Works (formerly the Military School; P1. 80; F, 5), with a large garden; then the spacious
Knew'Ali (PI. 82; F, 6), the palace of the Khedive's grandmother. We next reach the Kaer el-'Ain (P1. 28; (1,0), or large
hospital o. 231), with the Mosque Kagr el-tAin (Pl. MO, where
the howling dervishes perform their zikr o. 230). About 21/2 M.
from the W. end of the Muski we observe on the right and left large
straw magazines (libn), and opposite to us the











