Environs



318 Route J. ISLAND or nénA.

Fumrn el-Khalig, or influx of the city canal into an arm of the
Nile, which, however, is dry from May until the period of the overflow. The festivities connected with the cutting of the Nile embankment take place here in August. The straw-market is bounded
on the S. by the Old Aqueduct of the Citadel, which has been disused since the completion of the steam-pump in 1872.

The Head of this conduit, separated by a street from the arm of the
Nile just named. is constructed of solid masonry in a hexagonal form,
and consists of three stories, about 150 ft. in diameter. The ground-floor
contains stables and magazines, and on the first and second is accommodation for about 130 Soldiers. () n the terrace, where there are six waterwheels [ sitlgiyehsh each worked by two oxen, is a large hexagonal basin
from which the water flowed into the aqueduct. On the platform there are
also stables for the oxen and chambers for the attendants. The aqueduct,
constructed of massive blocks of stone, and resting on pointed arches, ascends in four different levels to the citadel, the total height being 27811.,
and the total length 110003115. (21/4 AL). When the Nile was at its lowest,
the water had to he raised to a height of 80 ft. to the first basin. A
branch of this conduit supplied the Jewish quarter with water in the
neighbourhood of lmftm Shafc'i tp. 327). The aqueduct dates from the
time of Saladin (12th cent.; 1). 1262). The entrance is in the N. wall, at the
back of the head of the aqueduct, where a Berber is posted as a custodian
(fee 1/1 fr. for each person). Views from the openings of the platform,
very fine. Easy ascent by an inclined plane.

Towards the left, a few hundred yards from the gate of the head
of the aqueduct are situated the Christian Cemeteries, surrounded
by lofty walls. The first is the English Cemetery, the second the
Roman Catholic, beyond which are those of the Greeks, Armenians,
and Copts, which present no attraction.

Leaving the head of the aqueduct, we follow the direction of
the arm of the Nile, which, however, is not always visible, as the
houses and walls of the Manjul quarter interpose between the
road and the water, and reach (11 4 MO the mansion which formerly belonged to s'lenu" sas Pasha el-FransthoiCColonel Selves), with
two fine Arabian portals (visitors not admitted). The second narrow and short road to the right beyond the cltfrteau leads to the
ferry crossing to the Island of Roda. We descend the slope, enter
the ferry-boat (1,41%. for one person, there and back; for a party
more in proportion; payment made on returning), ascend the opposite path, and turn to the right. A young gardener is usually
in waiting at the landing-place to conduct travellers through the
intricate lanes to the garden. At the S. extremity of the island
is the Nilgmelcr fNiliyriti), situated on land belonging to the heirs
of (lawn Pasha. The garden, laid out in the Arabian style, is miserably neglected. The paths are paved with a kind of mosaic of
round pebbles, obtained partly from the desert, and partly from
the island of Rhodes, and the most important of them are bordered with low walls, supporting wooden verandahs and arhours,
over which climb immense vines. The gardens contain orange
and lemon trees, dates, palms, and bananas, and also the henna
plant, which is not met with in the public gardens of Cairo.



