of Cairo. ISLAND or new. J. Route. 319

The Nilometer (.Ui.kyds), a square well, 16 ft. in diameter, connected by a channel with the Nile, has in the centre an octagonal
column, on which are inscribed the ancient Arabian measures and
Cutie inscriptions. The four straight sides are constructed of
massive masonry, and contain niches adorned with columns with
Byzantine capitals. Marble slabs built into the walls bear Cutie
inscriptions. The drCs', or old Arabian ell, is 5-1 centimetres, or
about 211/3 inches, and is divided into'24 kirat. The column of
the Nilometer, which has been frequently repaired, is 17 ells in
height, the first of which is built into the foundatiOns. The upper part is secured by means of a beam attached to the opposite
walls. The zero point of the Nilometer (according to Mahmud-Bey) is 28 it. above the average level of the Mediterranean,
so that the top of the column is nearly 59 ft. above sea-level. The
water of the Nile, when at its lowest, covers 7 ells of the Nilometer,
and when it reaches a height of 15 ells and 16 hirat, the shekh of
the Nile measurement proclaims the Wefa (p. 239 ], i.e. the height
of the water necessary for irrigating every part of the Nile valley.
The announcement of the Wefa is the signal for cutting the embankment. The shékh, however, has his private meter, the zero of
which is nearly 7 inches lower than that of the old Nilometer f.

The mean difference between the low and high level of the
Nile at Cairo is 241/2 feet. When, according to the shékh's mode
of reckoning, the height of 23 ells is attained, the island of'h.la
is overflowed.

The Nil 5 "Nilometer was constructed in the year 97 of the
Ilegira CA.O 710) by order of the Omayyai1 Khelif Sulémiin (715717)
Miiuulu, the'Abbaside Khalif (h D. 809-33), added the Cniic inscriptions
on the N. and w. Walls and repaired the whole structure in SL1. According to the Cufic inscriptions on the S. and E. sides, another restoration
took place in the year 233 of the Hegira. Khalif 31utawakkil (847-61)
also repaired the Milgyfis in 247 of the llegira (AJ). 850), and transferred
the office of measuring the water from the Copts, who had hitherto held

, The rate of taxation was determined in ancient times in accordance
with the height of the inundation. All the authorities from Herodotus
down to Leo Africanus agree in stating that the Nile must rise 16 cubits,
or Egyptian ens, in order that the land may produce good crops. The
famous statue of Father Nile in the Vatican is accordingly surrounded
by sixteen figures of genii, representing these 16 ells. To this day the
height of the overflow influences taxation, and the land which is artificially irrigated pays less than that reached by the river itself. The
object of the government always is to induce a belief that the inundation is favourable, and the sworn shekh of the Nilorneter is therefore
subject to the influence of the police at e m.'The same political
motives, from which in ancient times the custody of the Nilometers
was entrusted to the priests alone, still prevent the Egyptian public
from obtaining access to the M'suis iu the island of Roda. The real
height of the water is always concealed, and false statements made, as
it is the object of the fiscal authorities to levy, if possible, the full
rate of taxation every year, whatever the height of the Nile may have
been. This traditional dishonesty in the use of the Nilometer was first
discovered by the French engineers during the occupation of Egypt by
Napoleon'. (G. Ritter.)



