320 Route J. OLD CAIRO.



it, to the Muslim tamily of Abl'i Radab. In 485 of the llegira (All. 1092 ]
the thimite Khalif Mustansir Billfih (1036-91) caused the Kilometer to be
covered with a dome. resting on columns, but that structure was destroyed
during the siege of this part of the island by the French under Napoleon.
A roof in Turkish taste, resting on wooden columns, now covers the well.

Adjoining the Nilometer is a large Kiosque in the Turkish style,
which may be inspected when not occupied by any harem. The
architecture is uninteresting, but the handsome dimensions of the
rooms, which are intended for a summer residence, and the bath
are worthy of notice. The S. verandah of the kiosque affords an
uninterrupted *Vicw of the Nile, with Gizeh to the right, the pyramids in the background, and Old Cairo on the left (fee 1 fr.).

Near the N. end of the island stands the wonder-working tree of the
saint illangléra. a huge m'hk tree, the branches of which are hung with
innumerable rags. According to a popular superstition the patient must
thus offer to the saint the cloth which enveloped the affected limb, then
encircle the tree seven times, pluck off two leaves, and tie them on the
affected part with another cloth.

Leaving the island and returning to the opposite bank, we regain the 01d Cairo road, and after 1/4 M. more we reach the end of
the bazaar of this small town. "'e then turn to the left, and in
a few minutes reach a street running from N. to S. Turning to
the N. Cleft), we observe on the right a distinct quarter of the town,
built on the ruins of Fatty?! (p. 241) within the precincts of an
ancient Roman Castle, formerly called Babylon. The plan of the
fortress is still traceable by means of the numerous characteristic
remains of the Roman outer wall. On the S. side, between two
projecting towers, is a gateway with a gabled roof, now almost
entirely ruined. The castle is said once to have been occupied by
one of the three Roman legions stationed in Egypt (p. 241), and
to have been connected by a bridge with Rotia and with Gizeh,
where another Roman station is said to have been situated. Proceeding in a straight direction for about 100 yds., and then about
35 paces to the right of a low doorway situated in a hollow on the
W. side and concealed by a small wall, we reach the middle of the
Coptic quarter, where, enclosed by a dense mass of houses, is
situated the much frequented
Mbd Sergeh, or Coptic Church of St. Mary. (A Coptic boy may
be engaged as a guide to the church; fee 1 piastre.) According to
a wide-spread belief this church was built before the Mohammedan
conquest, and a legendary document preserved by the Coptic priests
places the date of its erection in the year 320 of the llegira, fie.
940 Ad). A glance at the poor materials of the building, however,
with its wooden ceiling and heterogeneous columns, will at once
show the absurdity of this idea. The crypt. however, is undoubtedly
much older than the church and may very well date from a preMohammedan epoch. Abu Sergeb is probably equivalent to St. Sergius. According to tradition, the Virgin and Child after their flight
to mt spent a month in the crypt of this church Hue of the Coptic priests who expects a fee of t piastre tariff from each visitor)





