I of Cairo. OLD CAIRO. 4. Route. 321

I

shows some interesting Byzantine carving and mosaics in ivory, now
blackened and discoloured with age. Many valuable art relics have
been removed from the church since 1860. A number of old pictures
of saints which still remain, some of them on a gold ground and with
well preserved colours, possess no artistic value. Above a door to
the right of the high-altar, engraved in wood, is the Coptic inscription,'Greetings to the Temple of the Fatherl' Below it is a modern Arabic inscription with the date 1195. - This church may be
regarded as the original model of all the older Egyptian-rl-tine
churches in which the Coptic Christians now worship'.

The basilica consists of a nave and aisles. The tribune, the two side
chapels, the sanctuary, and the parts corresponding to the senatorium
and matroneum of northern hasiliens are raised a few steps above the
level of the have and aisles, and are almost all as high as the nave,
while the aisles are provided with galleries.
The nave and tribune
have open roofs, that of
the latter being supported by elliptical
beams. and both being
probably of later date
than the church itself.
The left side-chapel is
surmounted by an Ara.hian dome, while the
aisles have flat ceilings. The lofty sidewalls of the nave consist of two rows of
columns, one above the
other, the columns of
the lower row being separated by keel-shaped
arches, while the upper
series, supporting the
gallery, consists of
groups of two columns
and one pillar alternately, connected by
an architrave. The
columns of Car-ram.
marble originally belonged to ancient edifices, and, like those in
the earlier mosques,
have been placed here
without the least regard to their suitability in paint of diet »

















e. Entrance from the street. b. Anterior Court.

-. - - -_ c. Entrance to the Church. d. Vestibule, e, Women's section. f. Men's section. g. \Vell. h. Seat
meter form of capital for the chief priest-. \Vooden screen: k. Wooden
or 01h }, architectural screen adorned with carving: L. ps to the
features Two of the crypt. m. Altar. n. Presbyterlum. o. 139311.11 ]: ' desks. p. Side-Chapels. q. r. Wells. 3. bncnsty.

t. Magazines.





































three original entrances are now built up,
while the third, in ac- _'.. _
cordance with the custom of the country. has walls projecting into y In
order to prevent passers-by from seeing into the forecourt The musty,

, Coptic Worship. On entering the church, the members of the conBAEDEKER'S Egypt L 2nd Ed. 21



