16

to). Beggars. Bakshish.

Most Orientals regard the European traveller as a Cruises, and
sometimes too as a madman, - so unintelligible to them are the
objects and pleasures of travelling. Poverty,. they imagine, is
unknown among us, whereas in reality we feel its privations far
more keenly than they. That such erroneous notions prevailis to
some extent the fault of travellers themselves In a country where
the requirements of the natives are few and simple, and money is
scarce, a few piastres seem a fortune to many. Travellers are therefore often tempted to give for the sake of affording temporary pleasure
at a trifling cost, forgetting that the seeds of insatiable enpidity are
thereby sown, to the infinite annoyance of their successors and the
demoralisation of the recipients themselves. As a rule, bakshish
should never be given except for services rendered, or to the sick
and aged.

Sir Gardner Wilkinson has justly observed that the cry of'reshim, bait-shark, yd. Ichawdgeh' (oh, sirl a gift!), with which Europeans are invariably assailed, is an insulting substitute for the
'good day' of other countries. The Arab reserves his pious benedirtions for his own countrymen, but never hesitates to take advantage of hat he considers the folly of foreign travellers. The best
reply "such applications is'nu': fish, and fish' Cl have, nothing for
you), whit-h will generally have the effect ofdispersingtheassailants.
Ur a beggar may he silenced with the words'Attr'ih ya'tik' (may God
give thee i ].

The word bulcshtsh, which resounds so perpetually. in the
traveller's ears during his sojourn in the East, and haunts him long
afterwards, simply means'a gift'; and, as everything is to he had
in return for gifts, the word has many different applications.
Thus with bakshish the tardy formalities of the custom-house
umecr are, accelerated, balishish supplies the place of a passport,
bakshish is the alms bestowed on a beggar, balgshish means black
mail, and lastly a large proportion of the public officials of the
country are said to live by bakshish or bribery.

(10 ]. Public Safety. Weapons. Dogs.

l'rume Sarm'v. The authority of the Khedive is so well
established throughout the whole of Egypt that travellers are very
rarely exposed to predatory attacks, even on the Sinai journey, and
travelling is indeed safer than in some parts of Europe. The protection of an l-Sl'Oft is therefore never necessary as it is in certain
'hue HIM Syria. Travellers, however, who have
"ts in view, and who require the oo-operation of the
natives er of the pasha or mudir of a district, or these who have
reason to apprehend any difficulty or danger, may obtain through
lln-ir (firmdn or lcsltireh),
which will often he found very useful.





