322 Route J. um) mum. Environs

now a dark and dirty chamber without a door, contains relics of Coptic
paintings on the right wall.

The nave is divided by wooden Screens into three sections. The
first forms a fore--court, or vestibule, the second is set apart for the



gregation first pay their homage to a number of pictures of saints hanging
on the walls (the veneration (it'suints and of the Virgin being a prominent
feature of the Coptic system), and then kneel before the altar and kiss
the hand of the priest. They then take their stand (for there are no seats)
in the part of the church allotted to them, leaning on crutches which
they bring for the purpose. as the service often lasts for three hours.
The service begins with the reading or chanting of prayers and passages
from the Gospels, partly in the Coptic language, and partly in Arabic,
in which the priest is assisted by a. schoolmaster and a choir ofhoys.
During this performance the worshippers, with very few exceptions,
engage freely in conversation, and the noise is said to he sometimes so
great that the priest has to come out of the hekel, or sanctuary. and
enjoin silence. After a time the burning of incense begins. The priest,
swinging his censor. leaves the hem and joins the congregation. each
member of which he blesses, placing his hand on their heads. lIe concludes this ceremony in the women's section of the church. and the
ordinary service now terminates.

The Celebration of the Eucharist is very frequent in the ('optic churches,
immediately following the ordinary service. The celebrant priest we. 5
a white and gaily embroidered gown reaching to his feet. and bearing
the Coptic cross on the breast and sleeves. After washing his hands, he
directs a boy to bring him several small round loaves with the Coptic
cross impressed on them. He chooses the best of them, places it on a
plate, and pronounces over it the blessing of the triune (ted. He then
carries it into the hike ], places it on the altar, covers it with white
cloths, and makes the circuit of the altar several times, reciting prayers,
and accompanied by the choristers carrying lighted candles. lle next
brings the plate with the bread out of the hike ] and holds it up before
the people. whereupon the whole congregation kneels. Returning to the
lid-kc ], he breaks the bread into small pieces, puts it into a chalice. pours
wine over it, and eats it with a spoon. distributing a few pieces to the
assistant clergy and the choristers. host any fragment of the consecrated
elements should be profaned, he Iinally washes all the utensils and his
own hands, and drinks the water in which he has washed them. Meanwhile a number ofsmall round loaves. prepared in an adjoining apartment,
are distributed among the congregation, each member ug and eating
one or more. The laity partake more rarely of the wine. and only after
having previously confessed. In this case we communism a approach
the door of the hEkeL where the priest administers to them with a spoon
a piece of the bread dipped in wine.

A curious ceremony takes place in the Peptic churches on Palm
Sunday ('id eslI-slm'dnfl Ancr the usual service and the communion
which follows it. several basins of water are placed in the space before
the lid-kc ]. The priest in his white surplice takes his stand in front of
them, turning his face towards the hékel. while another priest in his
ordinary dress reads the Gospel in Arabic, after which the former cousecrates the water by pronomieiug a prayer over it. The moment this
ceremony is concluded, the surrounding congregation rushes up to the
basins in order to dip palm-wreaths into them; and the crowd is often
so unruly that the priest is obliged to restore order with the aid of his
stick. These Wreaths are then worn by the Copis under their turbdshes
during the whole of the following year as amulets against the evil eye,
the sting of scorpions, and every other misfortune that can befall body
01' St )".

tin lRllHtith January, the anniversary of the Baptism of ('hrist (it'd
"WNW". men and how: plunge into the large font or bath which is (antic churches the water having heen first blessed by




























































