of Cairo. OLD CAIRO. 4. Route. 323

women, and the third for the men. Within the vestibule (first
section of the nave), as in most of the ancient Christian churches,
is a trough in the pavement for washing the feet and other
ablutions. Beyond the three sections of the nave, and raised by
a few steps, is the choir where the priests officiate; and, lastly, we
observe the Hékel, or sanctuary, containing the altar, and enclosed
by a wall, doors, and curtains. Inside the apse rise several steps
of masonry: in amphitheatrical fashion, towards the place which in
European churches is occupied by the episcopal throne, and in
Oriental by sacred images. The wall separating the sanctuary from
the choir is panelled and richly adorned with carvings in wood and
ivory. The oldest of these, probably coeval with the church,
represent the Nativity, the Eucharist, and the patron saint of the
church, and are surrounded with ornamentation in wood, consist-.
ing of rectilineal patterns, the basis of which is generally the
Coptic cross Hi) .Another favourite device, which is often seen
at Jerusalem, and with which the Copts frequently tattoo their arms,
consists of the same cross, with four smaller crosses in the angles.
A narrow flight of twelve steps descends to the Crypt, a small
vaulted chapel, consisting of nave and aisles. At the end of the
have is an altar in the form of an early Christian tomb-niche, which
tradition indicates as the spot where the Virgin and Child reposed;
in the centre of the aisles are apses. The right aisle contains the
font. into which, according to the Coptic ritual, the child to be
baptised is dipped three times

The Coptic quarter of Old Cain) contains several other basilicas. used
by Coptic, Greek, and Jewish congregations, but interesting only to those
who are making a special study of this kind of architecture. Among
them we may mention the second Seiyideh Maryam, or Greek Church of
St. Mary. on an elevated site in the castle of Babylon, and sometimes called
El-Mo'allai'a. or'the hanging', containing ivory carving and stained glass
windows. The church of Mari Menu contains a handsome candelabrum.
That of AIM Sefe'n has a pulpit in coloured marble. inlaid with mother
of-pearl, and a jug and basin with old Arabian enamel work. The Synagogue (EsluShamyrin, nr Keniset Eliycihu) was formerly a church of St.
Michael. The Jews say that Elijah once appeared here. and the synagogue
boasts of possessing a scroll of the Thorah written by the hand of Emit. The
scrolls shown. however, are all quite modern. Benjamin of Tudela mentions a synagogue at Old Cairo where Noses is said to have prayed for

the priest. Or, partly by way of amusement, they perform the same
ceremony in the Nile. into which they first pour some consecrated water.
On these occasions the river in Coptic districts swarms with boats. On
the eve of this festival. as well as on Holy Thursday and on the festival
of the Apostles, the priest washes the feet of the whole of his congregation.

It is impossible to resist the impression that the Coptic worship has
degenerated into a series of mere empty outward ceremonies, and indeed
the more enlightened members of the Seat admit this to he the case.
Another external form to which they attach great weight is the observance
of fasts, and a Capt who is negligent in this respect will rarely be met
with. On these occasions all kinds of animal food, not excepting fat,
eggs. butter. and cheese. are prohibited, and the usual fare consists of
bread. onions, hit (beans), prepared with walnut or mustard-oil, and duhlfa
(a kind of salad).

21*



