324 Route J. OLD CAIRO. Environs

the cessation of the plague of the thunder and hail (Exed. ix 29), and
which 15 therefore called the house of prayer of Moses', he church
of St. Barbara is embellished with many carvings in wood and ivory, and
with paintings of more than average merit.

Starting from the door of the castle, we pursue our way towards
the N., across the rubbish heaps of the ancient Postal: (p. 241),
skirt the town-wall of Old Cairo, and after 650 yds. reach the
*Gami"Amr, sometimes styled the'crown of the mosques'. The
W. side with the entrances, of which that near the S.W. corner
[ 1' ]. A) alone is used, the two others having been built up, is
partly concealed by peasants' huts and potteries (manufactories of
kullehs, p. 3'26), the occupants of which pester visitors for bakshish.
The entrance is easily recognized by the newly built porch.

So far from being the oldest structure of the kind in Cairo, as
is generally asserted, this mosque is in its present form really one
of the youngest The last of its numerous reconstructions dates
from the beginning of the 9th cent. of the llegira (1400 A. DO,
when a rich Cairene merchant, named lbrahim el--Mahalli, undertook to restore the building, partly at his own expense and partly
with the proceeds of collections made in all parts of Egypt. In
this undertaking he pulled down and made use of the materials of
the then standing mosque, which had been hastily erected in 1302
after the destruction of a still earlier building by an earthquake.
The heterogeneous nature of the columns is acconhted for by the
fact that they were brought from other buildings in Cairo ruined by
the same earthquake and were adapted to their new functions by
rude Procrustean methods of lengthening or shortening. The N. and
S. walls, running parallel with the aisles, are not straight. The N.
and S. colonnades are in ruins. The plan of the editlce is in exact
accordance with the typical form of the rectangular mosque with
a hypaethral arrangement of columns round an open court.

We traverse the great court towards the W., passing the Fountain
(PL 7), near which rise a palm and a thorn-tree, and enter the E.
Colonnade of the Sanctuary [ 1' ]. a, b, e, d'), which rests on six rows
of columns. in front of the Member JI. 2) is a Column CPI. 3 ] hearing the names of Allah, Nohanuned, and Sultan Suleiman in
Arabic characters; and by a freak of nature the outline of
the prophets'kurbatsh' is traced on it by a vein of lighter
colour than the rest of the marble, which is of a grey colour.
This column is believed by the Muslims to have been transported
miraculously from Mecca to Cairoi. In the NE. corner is the Tomb
of Shékh'Abdallah, son of "Aim. The columns, all composed of
marble of various kinds, are 366 in number. The masonry consists



'1' The legend is told by Moritz Busch as follows: -'When'Amr was
building his master, Khalif'Omar, for a column
from Mecca. The Khalif thereupon addressed himself to one of the colunms there, and commanded it to migrate to the Nile, but the column








