326 Route f OLD CAIRO. Environs

of burnt bricks, and evidently belongs to different periods, the
oldest part being near the entrance, in the S. facade of the court.
The arches are of very various forms, some of them being almost
circular, while others, particularly those in the apertures of the
wall, form anearly acute angle with straight sides. Horseshoe arches
also occur, and others are constructed in arbitrary and fantastic
shapes. The capitals display a great variety of Roman and Byzantine
forms, and some of them, not quite completed, in the ruined 1V.
colounade, were perhaps Arabian imitations of Ptolemaic models.
The baths and other buildings once connected with the mosque are
no longer traceable.

The colonnades 011 the W. side (that of the entrance) are now
supported by one row of columns only. Of the double columns that
once stood here one Pair of Columns 0' ]. 1?) alone remains. They
are placed very close together, and it is said that none but honest
men could squeeze themselves between them; but the Khedive
has abolished this test of character by walling up the iuterstiee, -Hn
1808 this mosque. which has long been almost disused, witnessed a
very remarkable scene. At the usual period of the rise of the Nile,
the water beg f.tan to fall. Dismayed by this strange phenomenon, the
whole of the Mohammedan priesthood, the Christian clergy of every
seat, and the Jewish rabbis, with one accord, assembled in the
mosque of "Arm to pray for the rise of the water, and so effectual
were their prayers that the river ere long rose to its wonted fertilising height. (Fee to the attendant Ihr-l fin)

The traveller who does not intend ascending the Nile will find it not
uninteresting. (111 quitting the mosque. to visit one of the above-mentioned
[ fallen Manufaclories. and to inspect its primitive apparatus tlsalpshish,
d few copper piastres).

The porous water jars (Arabic { (1112271) used throughout the whole of
Egypt are chictlv manufactured at Keneh in Upper Egypt of light grey
clay of very equal consistency. The remarkably uniform and delicate
porosity of the vessels is produced by mixing the clay with ashes which,
the first time the vessel is used. are partly w aler'he
rapid evaporation caused by the porosity of the lculleh cools the liquid
within to 11 temperatui of1211°111wer than that of the surrounding 1111
- These vessels, including the balazelz. or large jars 11 ith handles, chiefly
manufactured at Bald: in Upper Eg1pt. are brought down from Upper
Egypts in rafts. consisting of thousands of them tied together by the
handles and with their mouths covered.

Continuing to follow the road across the rubbish- hills of lost: .1
which 11c have just left, no observe on our right a Muslim burialgronnd, and at a short distance in front of us the old aqueduct. A
little to the right, on an eminence, rises an old ruined mosque
fthirrrr A61? Srt'thl), beyond it is the Citadel with the mosque of
Mohalnnred'Ali, and farther distant are the hills of the Mohattam
(p. 335). This view is very striking towards sunset.

The road, which becomes had beyond this point, leads round
the ruined mosque and ascends heaps of debris. On the top of the
hill it divides. The road to the left leads back to the town, from
the houses of which the Mosque of Sultan llasan (p. 5200) stands



