, of Cairo. om mum, J. Route. 327

out conspicuously. The road, first in astraight direction, afterwards
inclining to the right, leads to the necropolis known as Indus
Shafe 1 (see below), with the burial-mosque of the viceroyal family,
which, however, presents no great attraction. tiders may easily
make this short digression (see below).

Between this point and the base of the Mohattam towards the
E., and extending for some distance up the steep slopes of the
hills, lies an extensive burial- ground, with several conspicuous,
but very dilapidated mausolea, known as the
Tombs of the Mamelukes, which approach close to the city.
Like the so-called Tombs of the Khalifs (p. 282) their history is
obscure, the names of the builders being unknown, and no inscriptions having been preserved. The ruins of these monuments,
however, still bear traces of great artistic merit, and several of the
minarets in particular are exceedingly beautiful.

In a somewhat detached position, a little way in the direction
of the hills, we observe the ruined dome and lantern mentioned at
p. 177. Close to the town, in the midst of a group of other tombs,
rises the ruins of a mausoleum which once had a double dome.
Inside the building are walls arranged in the form of a fan for the
support of the outer dome, which has fallen in.

The whole of this region is still used as a Muslim burial-ground,
and in some cases the ancient mausolea have been converted into
family burial-places.

The gate by which we re-enter the town is the IMI, el-Nsmffeh
(PL G, 2). If we quit the main street by the second side-street to
the left, we pass through the street El-'Abr et-Tawil, and in about
10 min. reach the S.W. and oldest part of Cairo, containing the
venerable dei' ibn Tuli'm (p. 265), which may now be Visited if
time permits.

The road to the viceroyal burial-mosque in the necropolis of
Imim Shaferi passes the old mosque of Abu Su'fid mentioned above,
descends the hill at the bifurcation of the road, and leads to a group
of dome-buildings nearly 131. distant, among which the imposing outline of the tomb of Imfim Shufe'i, of ahluislr-grey colour, is
most conspicuous. Near it is the flesh el-Bisha, or burial-mosque
of the family of the Khedive.

To the left of the entrance is a sebil. On each side of the
large arcade leading to the mosque are apartments for the accommodation of the women who come to pray at the tombs At the
end of this covered passage, on the left, is a small open space, in
which, opposite to us, is a small door leading to the entrance of the
mosque. (Nearer us is another door 011 theleft, leading to the mausoleum of a wife of ex-Khedive Isma no As usual in all the mosques,
the visitor on entering must put on slippers or linen socks over his
boots (Bakshish for one person 2, and to the guide 3 piastres
tariff.) T he monuments are in white marble and were executed by








