329 Route .1. GEZIREII. Environs'I

Greek and Armenian sculptors. The inscriptions and ornamentation
are richly gilded and painted. The I.fortin is regularly read here.

Returning to the sehil already mentioned, we may next visit
the neighbouring so-cailed J.hhh el-s1Fnthilc, erected in the 18th
pent, probably the tomb of the Mameluke chief rAll Bey and
his family, but erroneously pointed out as that of the famous

Er; -L: erm% mfm: t, *'
if 3" a
'l

. MoiherofeAbbiig
Pasha.

.'Ahbfis Pasha (p.
107





i. LET, LEI Em ]

. El-lli'uni, son of
"Abbas.

. Ahmed Pasha
Yeken.

. Mohammed'Ali
Defierdiir.

. Ibrahim Pasha.

.Tus0n Pasha,
t'aiherof'dblnfis,
and his family.

. Tomb of Tusfin
lmai Buy. whose
remains Were
burned in the
defin.

10, Tustin um Se


"ides these
the mosque con
, www--w
tains many other
tombs of no importance, chiefly those of the harem.

Mameluke general Nurfid lley (1/0in Murdd Bay), who is interred
in the Suhag mosque at Girgeh in Upper Egypt. The principal
monuments stand on a hollow pedestal, and the domes rest on
marble columns.

Chateau and Park of Gezireh.

Ticket of admission from the consulate necessary (p, 211). Distance
about 3 M. (a drive of 1/2 br.). It should be borne in mind that the Nile
bridge is closed from 1 to about 3 o'clock, the time appointed for the
passage of vessels through it. A visit to Hezireh may also be combined
with an excursion to the Pyramids fun the way back from the latter).

The road to the chateau of Gezireh crosses the handsome Iron
Bridge adjoining the Kay en-MI (Pl. 17), the extensive barracks
of Cairo, which also contain apartments for the use of the Khedive. The bridge, about 4'20 yds. in length, was built by a
French iron company. The buttresses, which were constructed
with the aid of air-tight'caissons', are of solid stone, and are
5:") yds. apart. The bottom of the foundations is aboutfi) ft. below
the level of the river when at its lowest. At a very early hour in
the morning an interesting and picturesque crowd of peasantry
may be seen congregated here for the purpose ofpayintr duty on
the wares they are bringing to market.



