HOTELS. CAFES. 17

Weapons for self-defence are an unnecessary encumbrance.
Guns for purposes of sport, see p. 79.

Does, being regarded by the Muslims as unclean (p. 79), are
never touched by them. Their barking is sometimes a source of
alarm, especially in country places, but they fortunately never bite.
As they are never domesticated in Oriental countries, it is quite
useless to attempt to establish friendly relations with them.

(11). Hotels. Hospitality.

HOTELS. The traveller will find good, first--class hotels at
Alexandria, Cairo, Isma'iliya, Port Sa'id, and Suez, kept by Germans,
Frenchmen, or Creeks, with European waiters. The charges are
generally high, 15-25 fr. per day being charged during the season
for board, lodging, and attendance, whether all the meals are
partaken of or not. For a prolonged stay a lower rate should be
stipulated for in advance. Wine is generally extra. The waiter
expects a fee of 2-3 fr. per week, his native assistant 11/211, and the
porter about 2 fr.; for errands in the neighbourhood there is generally
a separate tariff. Orientals attract the attention of waiters by clapping
their hands, and sometimes with the exclamation -'yt weted' (ho,
boy i). - Tolerable inns have also sprung up of late years at'l'anta,
Many) ra, Zakazilg, Damietta, and at Minyeh and S'uit. in Upper Egypt.

HOSPITALITY. In all other parts of Egypt the traveller who is
not provided with tents must apply to the principal natives or
officials, or to European merchants for accommodation. The latter
are to be met with in every part of the Delta, and will be found
most courteous and hospitable. Letters of introduction may be obtained Without difficulty at Alexandria and Cairo.

(12). Cafes.
Story--tellers, Musicians, Singers, etc.

EUROPEAN GAMES are to be found at the towns above mentioned,
beer being one of the refreshments they afford (1/2 fr. per glass).
The beer either comes from Vienna or Gratz, or is made in Cairo
by the Société Genevoise.

ARABIAN CAFE'S (lcahwa) abound everywhere, even in the
smallest and dirtiest villages. In the country they usually consist
of wooden booths, with a few seats made of plaited palm-twigs
(germ), and even in the large towns, like Cairo, they are very small
and uninviting. The lgahwas are frequented by the lower classes
exclusively. The front generally consists of woodwork with a few
open arches. Outside the door runs a mastaba, or raised seat of
stone or brick, two or three feet in height and of about the same
width, covered with mats, and there are similar seats on two or
three sides of the interior. Coffee is served by the lcahwegi at 10
paras per cup (fingdn), and several nargilehs and slotshehs or gfizehs

Bnaonnan's Egypt L bul Ed. 2



