61221111211. t.Rottt 3 Cl q

M'oml the bridge we turn to the right, and soon observe.
, close to the Nile. the northernmost part of the great park, the
laying out of which is still unfinished. The grounds, which were
designed by M. Barillet (p. .6), are intended to extend from Gizeh

. and will be shout 31 .3 it. long and 3) l. broad.

i The w. Amt JF 1m; 111111111 from the mainland.
is at present closed at the upper end. so that when the river is low the

I channel is filled with water to a point a little above EutNibeh ouly. lt

is intended, however. to use this arm as a kind of waste-pipe. to be
opened when the water is 51 high as to endanger the E. hank aear I
en Nit and the new town of 1sura'iliya. been widened. deepened. and protected by csmttruskateais 11 work
which was begun in l > 66) Zile can he conducted through this channel. The emhaukments were
constructed with the aid of a small transportable railway. The island of

Gezireh was often tlooded in former times. rendering horticulture impossible. but the whole surface has been raised about a I'L. s1 as to

elevate it above the level of the highest inundations.

From the Entrance (Pl. D we cross the Fore Court Ll'l.'Il to
the left. and apply to the custodian JI. 3: generally a Frenchman:
no fee), who shows the palace and grounds. The Palace. which is
externally a simple edifice. was erected. after many interruptions and alterations. by Franz-Bey. a German architect. in 1563-13
11110 Were invited to attend the ceremony of opening the Suez Canal were entertained here. The palace
became state property in 1560 and is now seldom occupied.

The masonry was executed by native workmen. the woodwork by
J. Mannstein of Vienna. and the marble-work by Bonani ot'Carrara. The
decorations of the walls in the. principal apartments were designed by
C. t, s were manufactured by Detrogal
of Lyons from designs by Franz. Most of the ironwork is from the Lauehhammer foundry near Dresden. The furniture in the N. wing is chittily
Parisian. and the rest was partly manufactured by Parvis (p. 2361. and

i partly by 3 Berlin firm."
0n the N. side is the superb Entrance LP ]. a), with bamboo
furniture from Paris Adjoining it on the E. are the Waiting Room
JI. If) and the large Audience Chamber LPI. cl. leyoud these are
a Drawing Room tPl. d) and a small dining-room. the latter of which contains Arabian
cabinets by Parris (t 936 ].
The other two wings (W. and SJ. surrounded by the gardens.
contain suit of apartments for visitors. each consisting of a bedroom, dressing-room, and sitting-room. The upper floor contains
similar apartment one suite of which was lined with blue
satin when occupied by the Empress 1151151110, and another was'
I timed up for the reception of the Princess of Wales.

We next visit the. Gh-tto, a little to the .w, ofthe palace.
and easily recognised by the rock of which it is constructed. The
materials were chietly brought from the wave-worn coast of Alexan







