330 Route d. SHUBRA Environs
dria, and partly from the Petrified Forest o. 337). The pebbles
were imported from the island of Rhodes in the Mediterranean, and
the coral and shells from the Red Sea.

1'1. i, a fountain by llouaui, representing the infant Nile. To
the N. ofit is the Harem Building1 part of which was erected by
Mohammad'Ali (not shown). PL 5, a pleasant resting-place, a
'voliere' enclosed with interesting plants. P1. 6, a fountain. In
the centre of the garden is the long"kiosque, probably the finest
modern Arabian structure of the kind. The ornamentation, in cast
iron, is in the Alhambra style. The plan of the building is slightly
irregular, as several apartments of an older kiosque have been incorporated with it. The handsome hall and the fountain were
executed at the Lauchhammer foundry near Dresden; they weighed
400 tons, and the cost of transport alone amounted to upwards of
30001.; the hall itself, exclusive of the expense of its erection and
decoration, cost 80001. On the E. side of the kiosque are the reception chambers, and on the w. side the private apartments of the
Khedive, consisting of an ante-chamber [ 1' ]. f, g), a small [ P ]. i)
and a large dining-room (Pl. k), a smoking-room (PI. h), chambers

for reading, resting, and bathing, and a store-room for plate.

The marble work here is also by Bonani, the principal decorations
by Diehitsch. and the others by Ercoleni, Furey, Girard, and Parvis. Roman
table in mosaic. presented to Mohammed'Ali by the pope. Several handsome
tables in Florentine mosaic. Furniture in cast metal by Barbedienne of
Paris. The bronze candelabra in the palace and in the kiosque were for
the most part brought from other palaces, so that there is some incongruity
in their styles. Furniture French and English.

Pl. 8, green-houses, with a Victoria Regia at the N. end. Pl. U,
a small menagerie with animals from Central Africa (none deserving
special mention). P ]. 10, confectionery establishment. Pl. 11,
usual exit. P1. 1?. pumps for watering the grounds and the avenues
leading to Gizeh. Adjacent, an ice--manufactory.

The Shubra Avenue.

About 21/2 M. to the N. of Cairo lies the village of Shubra, on
the Nile, where a spacious garden and kiosque of Mohammed rAli,
now neglected, are situated (permission to visit them obtained
through the consulate). The broad Shubra Avenue leading thither
is composed of beautiful sycamores and lebbek trees (erroneously
called Nile acacias; p. TO. This avenue forms the Rotten How, or
Avenue de Boulogne, of Cairo. The fashionable: of the town, both
Mohammedan and Christian, drive or ride here daily, but principally
on Friday and Sunday evenings. The scene resembles the'corso'
of European cities, but is rendered far more picturesque by its
Oriental elements. The carriages of the slightly veiled ladies from
the harems of the wealthy, and those of the ministers, the consuls
and the merchants, follow each otherin gay procession, while the
ubiquitous donkey forms a conspicuous feature in the busy throng.



