of Cairo. SHUBRA. 4. Route. 331

The handsome equipage of the Khedive is also seldom absent on
Fridays and Sundays. Beyond the railway-station t PL A, 51, where
the avenue begins, are a number of cafes and orange and refreshment stalls. Near the beginning of the drive are several villas, one
of which, to the right, a little back from the road, is the beautiful
Villa Ciccolani, a visit to which (on the way ham is recommended.
The tower commands a good survey of the environs (fee 1 fr.) 011
the left is the viceroyal palace Far ers-Nusha, for the reception of
distinguished foreign visitors [ not shown).

At the end of the avenue, and beyond the first houses of Shubra,
we turn a little to the right and soon reach the entrance to the
garden, where tickets of admission are presented. We first proceed
to the kiosque (fee'l tn ], after which a gardener shows the grounds
and presents visitors with a bouquet (fee 1 fro.

The new garden chateau, which was erected by Halim Pasha,
son of Mohammed'Ali, on the site of an older building, presents no
architectural interest, but is worthy of inspection as an example
of rich and effective garden architecture. The fine large basin,
bordered with balustrades and galleries, was left unaltered. The
corners and sides of the square reservoir are embellished with small
kiosqnes. The fountains consist of water-spouting lions, and in the
centre of the basin rises a kind of balcony, borne by twenty-four
water-spouting crocodiles, which remind one of the proximity of
the Nile. The pavement, basin, and columns are of Italian
marble, while the upper part of the structure is in wood and
stucco only. As already observed, the whole place is in a neglected
condition Several of the windows afford a line view of the Nile.
The rooms, which are handsomely fitted up, contain a number of
pictures, including an indifferent portrait of Mohammed'Ali.

The *Gardcn, which covers an area of nearly nine acres, was
somewhat incongruously re-modelled a few years ago by M. Barillet
(p. 76) in the old French style, which is ill adapted for the
Oriental vegetation, but it also contains some beautiful rose and
geranium beds. Among the tropical plants, which have their
Latin names attached, we remark the beautiful Indian lemonshrnb and a huge lebbek tree (p. 76 ]. An artificial hill in the
garden commands a good survey of the grounds. A large building
to the N. has been built for the Khedive's stud.

Heliopolis.

Another pleasant drive may be taken to M i.rulu a village 5 M.
to the ICE. of Cairo. where the Tree of the Virgin and the Obelisk uf
Heliopolis are situated. The drive to the I'iuhheh palace takes 3/4 hr.,
thence to Matariyeh 1/; Inn, and to the obelisk 1/4 hr. more. A donkey
takes longer.

We follow the Boulevard Clot Bey, leading from the lime") oh
to the station and to Shulvmtp 330), turn to the right at the








