A I
332 Route 4.'ABBASIYEH. Enviro'm
Rand Paint (where we observe the Sebil of the mother of
ex-Khedive Isma'il on the left; Fl. 93 ], leave the new guard-house on
the left, andthen followthe Route de l'Abbasieh, which soouinclines
a little to the left. A few years ago this road was flanked with
large heaps of rubbish, but these have now given way to villas and
gardens, which extend to the Bib Wsaniyeh. The road is also
pleasantly shaded by the lebbek trees (p. 76) planted here some
time ago. Immediately after crossing the Khalig (city-canal),
the'Abhasiyeh road skirts the old mosque of EF-pthir LPI. 71),
a large square pile of buildings, which was called by the French
Fort Sulkouslcy, was afterwards a government bakehouse, and
is now a guard-house. A few paces beyond this building we
reach the (right) Bc'zb Hasan't'yeh, through which the route to'Abbasiyeh lay before the completion of the new road (and which,
being shorter, may still be followed by riders or walkers). Beyond
this gate the carriage-road runs towards the N.l < l., skirting the
desert. At the beginning of it, on the left, is the slaughter-house.
A road to the right leads to the pumps of the water company.

A few hundred paces farther on, the road divides again. The
branch to the right, the old Suez road, leads to an uninteresting
viceroyal chateau at the base of the Gebel cl-Ahmar (p. 337), the
ascent of which is recommended.

We follow the road to the left, leading direct to'Abbasiyeh.
On the right we pass amodern public fountain, and on the left all old
burial-mosque and the'European Hospital'.'Ahbfisiyeh is a group
of houses and cottages, founded by'AbUs Pasha in 1849, in
order to afford suitable accommodation for the lleduin shékhs
whose friendship he was desirous of cultivating, and who objected
to enter the city itself. A large palace which formerly stood here
has been replaced by barracks in the most modern style, besides
which there are numerous older barracks and a military school
with a gymnastic-ground. The English troops are at present encamped here. Near the last barrack on the left is a palace of
the ex-Khedive's mother, and a little farther on, also to the left,
rises the meteorological and astronomical Observatory. At the
end of the houses of rAbhasiyeh begin the new gardens which have
been reclaimed from the desert. The road crosses two railways,
pa the village of Kubbeh Heft ], intersects beautiful orchards
and vineyards, and leads under handsome acacias and past numerous sahiyehs to the Palace of Khedive Tewfl.k. The vineyards,
which were planted by Ibrahim Pasha, the grandfather of the
Khedive, and contain various kinds of vines from Fontainebleau,
are celebrated. This property formerly belonged to the late Mustafa
Faz.1l-l'asha, the uncle of the Khedive. The present palace,
how en t has been entirely erected by Tewfili himself. In the desert, to the right of the road, about 1/2 M. distant, is situated the
Race Course, where races formerly took place annually in January.



