. of Cairo. HELIOPOLIS. J. Route. 333

A little before reaching Iihedive Tewfiks palace, the road turns
to the right and skirts the garden belonging to the palace. It then
enters an olive plantation and leads in a straight direction to Matariyeh. This plain has been the scene of two important battles.
In 1517 the Battle ofHeliopolis made Selim and the Turks masters
of Egypt (p. 105); and on 20th March, 1800, General Kle'ber with
10,000 French troops succeeded in defeating 60,000 Orientals,
and in consequence of this victory regained possession of Cairo,
although for a short time only.

Near the village of Matariyeh are the Tree and Well of the
Virgin and the Obelisk of Heliopolis. The Virgin's Tree tin a garden
to the right of the road) is a sycamore with a decayed and riven
trunk, covered with names and inscriptions, but the branches are
still tolerably flourishing. According to the legend, the Virgin
and Child once rested under the shade of this tree during the
Flight to Egypt; and there is another tradition to the effect that
the persecuted Mary concealed herself with the Child in a hollow
of the trunk,. and that a spider so completely covered the opening
with its web as to screen her effectually from observation The
present tree, the predecessor of which died in 1605, Was not
planted till after 1672. At the time of the inauguration of the
Suez Canal the tree was presented by the Khedive to the Empress
Eugenie. The garden is watered by means of a double salsiyeh,
which is supplied from a shallow reservoir fed by springs. This
water is good for drinking, while that of all the others, which
percolates through the ground from the Nile, is usually brackish.
This reservoir has been called the'Water of An" from a very early
period, and figures in the Coptic legends connected with the
Virgin. It is an interesting fact that the celebrated balsam shrub,
the balm of which is said to have been presented to Solomon by the
Queen of Sheba, once throve in this neighbourhood. The plant,
however, does not now occur nearer than Yemen, where its
juice is an article of commerce. It is said to have been replanted
here by Cleopatra, but apparently without success In 1820-30
the first experiments with the cotton--plant (p. 75), which now
plays so important a part in the commerce of Egypt, were made
in this neighbourhood. Quails abound here in the mouth of April

. SO.
(P Ab% ut 1/231. beyond the garden are situated the ruins of the
famous ancient Heliopolis, or city of the sun, of which the obelisk
and the outer walls are now the only vestiges. The town was tall-.
ed by the Egyptians the dwelling or seat of Ra (Helios), or of
Tum (the evening sun, p. 1'35 ], or house of Phenix [ Denim ] or
l An. The latter, the popular name of the place, is frequently
mentioned in the Bible under the Hebrew form of On. Thus, in
Genesis, we are informed that Pharaoh gave Joseph the daughter
of Potiphera [ i.e.'dedicated to lta'), a priest of Heliopolis, named



