331 Route 4. u nmovom s. Environs

Asenath, in marriage. On lay in the land of (10511011, and we learn
from the monuments that even after the Exodus it was still inhabited by a considerable number of Semites. The Arabs named
it'Ain Shams, which means'well of the sun'.

From a very early period the Sun Temple of Ra (Tarn-Harm-acl,

p. m), the most famous and ancient shrine in Egypt, with the exception of that of Ptah of Memphis. was the scene of magnificent rites in
honour of the cycle of deities connected with the worship of the sun.
The chief of these were Turn and mr-Har-bis, with his companion
Theth, Sehu and Tefnut, children of Tum, Osiris in the character of the
soul of Ila [ called'the ancient of Heliopolis'). Horns, and Isis, the last
named deity being specially worshipped here under the highly revered
name of lsis-llathor, or Venus Urania, who was sometimes known as
Isis of An. The Mnevis bull was also revered here, being the animal
sacred to Ra, while the Apis hull of Memphis, which abode for a time at
Heliopolis before its introduction into its sanctuary in the town of the
pyramids. was associated with Pub. The lions which were kept here
perhaps had reference to Sehu and Tefnut, the brother and sister, who
were represented as lions. or perhaps, owing to the glossiness of their
skins and their natural fire, to the shining and glowing orb of day.
With regard to the mama, the bird of us, which was worshipped here,
and which brings its ashes to Heliopolis, see p. 127. Cats and a white
sow were also regarded as sacred here.

The foundation of the temple is of very remote origin. In the'great
hall' here the wounds of "only received in his combat with Seth Typhon (p.130). are said to have been heeled. Amenemha 1.. the first king
of the 19th Dynasty. restored the shrine of Tum and laid the foundation
of the Sun Temple, in front of which his son Usertesen erected the
obelisk which still stands here.

The immense wealth of this shrine is mentioned by various papyri,
and particularly the Harris papyrus in London, which gives a list
of the gifts presented to it by Ramses in. alone. The shitretpi
tittiehtis,. tdinnq. mid menials connected with the temple is said
to have numbered no less than 12.913. As each Pharaoh was regarded as a human embodiment of Ra. it was natural that he should
present special offerings to the chief scene of the worship of that god,
and should proudly add to his titles that of'brrd ofllelioyor1ss'. The most
celebrated of the ancient schools. with the teachers of which Herodotus
once conversed, was also established at ileliopolis, while in Strabo's time
(born 15.0. 60 ] the famous seat of learning had L l in e., although
5 of the priestly scholars were still standing. The guides showed
the great. geographer the dwelling in which Plato and Eudoxus were
said to have resided for thirteent?) years;'for', he says. speaking of
the professors at this university,'these persons, "admirably imbued
with knowledge of heavenly things. could only be persuaded by patience
and politeness to communicate some of their doctrines; but most of
them were concealed by these barbarians.' 1rlrelisks, the emblems
of the sun's rays, were of course frequently dedicated to the god of the
sun and his temple; and we are accordingly informed that llcliopolis
was'ftlll of tullelisks'.

The z'Uhvihish which still stands here is of red granite ofSyene
(As in), and is (G ft. high. Excepting a small obelisk found by
Lepsius in the Net-ropolis of Memphis, this is the oldest yet discovered, having been cream ] by Usertesen, with the pronomen
lla-kheper--ka, the second king of the 12th Dynasty. The companion obelisk (for these monuments were always erected in
pairs) stood, as Mohammedan writers inform us, down to the 12th
century. Each of the four sides bears an inscription in the bold














