r,
of Cairo. 1101111112111. J. Route. 535

and simple characters of the old empire; but those on two of the
sides have been rendered illegible by the bees which have made
their cells in the deeply out hieroglyphics. The pyramidium at the
top was covered with metal at a comparatively late period. The
ground on which it stands has been so considerably raised by
deposits of mud, that a great part of the obelisk is now buried.
The inscriptions, which are the same on each of the four sides,
record that Usertesen I. (Ra-Khepera) King of Upper and
Lower Egypt, lord of the diadems and son of the sun, whom
the (divine) spirits of An (Heliopolis) love, etc., founded the
obelisk on the first day of the festival of Set, celebrated at the close
of a period of thirty years. Cambyses is said to have destroyed
Heliopolis, but it is ascertained that the city still contained many
objects of interest down to a late Mohammedan period.

The excursion may be extended to the village of El-Jlerg [ with some
ruins of the 18th Dynasty) and the once prosperous, but new ruinous
11718115101, on the outskirts ot the desert t'2,1/2 hrs. from Maturiyeh ] but
the sole attraction consists in the duck and snipe shouting around the
ponds near Khankah. An interesting visit may, howevm he made without
much trouble to an ostrich farm kept by some Frenchmen about 1/2 hr.
to the right.

The Buket e1 Hagg, or Lake of the Pilgrims. 41/21) to the E. of
liatariVeh presents no attraction except during the latter half of the
lunar month of Shawwa ] when the great caravan which accompanies the
new kisweh or cover for the Ka'ba to Mecca, assembles here to celebrate
the so- -ca ] led Nahum ] Festival (11. 230). A similar scene may, however,
be more conveniently viewed at'Abhasiyeh, Where in the open spaces
on each side of the road before its bifurcation, numerous tents are pitched and festivities take place at the time of the departure and arrival of
the sacred carpet.

The Mokattam Hills.

The"Nol.rat.t.sm Hills are well worthy of a visit (on donkeyback), especially about sunset, or in the morning between S and 9
o clock; or the ascent may be made by way of termination to the
excursion to the Petrified Forest (1). 337 ]. Those who consider the
expedition too fatiguing may content themselves with the ascent of
the Windmill Hill (p. 287 ] at the end of the Mused, or with a visit
to the Citadel o. 2621.

One route to the Mokattam (y Gebcl Giy0shi, as the range of
hills to the E. of Cairo is sometimes called after the conspicuous
old mosque situated on their summit) starts from the Tombs of the
lihalifs, and the other from the Citadel. The former is recommended for going, and the latter for returning. The whole excursion
takes 3 hours.

Passing the Tombs of the Khalifs, and crossing the railway embankment, we ride in the direction of a dark projecting rock, which
we afterwards leave to the right. The road, which is fairly good, then
ascends along the DEE. side of the large quarry lying on the right,
and bears towards the right. In 3/4111. we reach a large plateau,
on the W. margin of which rises the dilapidated Mosque of (Hymn






