18 srour-rnnnnus.

(water-pipes) are kept in readiness for the use of customers. The

turnluik (p. 27) smoked in the latter is sometimes mixed with the
intoxicating hashish Lhemp, Cannabis Indies), the strong and unmistakeable smell of which is often perceptible even in the street.

The sale of hashish is now nominally prohibited in Egypt.

"the leaves and capsules of hemp, called in Egypt stheesh, were
employed in some countries of the East in very ancient times to induce
an exhilarating intoxication. Herodotus (ir, 75) informs us that the
had a custom of burning the seeds of this plant in religious
ceremonies, and that they became intoxicated with the fumes. Galen
also mentions the intoxicating properties of hemp. The practice of
chewing the leaves of this plant to induce intoxication prevailed, or
existed, in India in very early ages; thence it was introduced into Persia;
and about six centuries ago (before the middle of the thirteenth century I
of our era) this pernicious and degrading custom was adopted in Egypt,
but chiefly by persons of the lowerorders.... The preparation of hemp
used for smoking produces boisterous mirth. Few inhalation, of the
smoke, but the last very copious, are usually taken from the gozeh. After
the emission of the last draught from the mouth and nostrils, commonly
a tit of coughing, and often a spitting of blood, ensues, in consequence
of the lungs having been filled with the smoke Uhsheesh is to be
obtained not only at some of the coffee-shops: there are shops of a smaller
and more private description solely appropriated to the sale of this and
other intoxicating preparations: they are called multsheshehs. It is sometimes amusing to observe the ridiculous conduct, and to listen to the
conversation, of the persons who frequent these shops. They are all of
the lower orders. The term J.tashshtith, which signitics a smoker, or an
thy, of hemp, is an appellation uf obloquy: noisy and riotous people
are often called lutsltshrisheen. which is the plural of that appellation, and,
the origin of our word assassin; a name first applied to Arab warriors in
Syria, in the time of the Crusades, who made use of intoxicating and
soporif'1c drugs to render their enemies insensihle'.

'The use of opium and other drugs to induce intoxication is not so
common in Egypt as in many other countries of the East: the number of
l-Zvyptians addicted to this vice is certainly not nearly so great in proportion to the whole population as is the relative number of persons in
our own country who indulge in habitual drunkenness'....

"BoGZth or booguh, which is an intoxicating liquor made with barleybread, crumbled, mixed with water, strained, and left to ferment, is
counmmly drunk by the boatmen of the Nile, and by other persons of
the lower ordurs'. - LANE (185333).

Numerous taverns now exist exclusively for the sale of btt.zeh, kept I
chit-Hy by Nubians. It is usually dispensed immediately from a large
boiler wilh a. wooden ladle, which is passed from mouth to mouth, the
customers being1 of both sexes. The liquor is intoxicating in a very
slight degree.

Many of the haltwas are frequented, especially on the eves of l
fUStll'als IP- 236), by story-tellers and musicians. The performances
range from those of a very simple character to gorgeous entertainmunts with dancing, music, and fireworks; and these'fantasiyas',
as they are called by the modern Arabs, afford unbounded delight.

M'um: riLths (who in private domestic circles are generally
women) still form a characteristic Oriental institution. Wherever

tlu y make their appearance, whether in the public streets or the l
I



roller-house, in the densely peopled alleys of the large towns, or in
tho smallest country villages, or among the tents of the wandering
Arabs, they are sure to attract an attentive, easily pleased, and exoctulingly grateful crowd. The more sensational the tale, the better,



