of Cairo. GEBEL EL-ALH'IAR. J. Route. 337

The Gebel el--Ahmar, or Red Mountain, which rises to the N.
or (iebel Giyushi (p. 335 most conveniently visited from'Abbitsiyeh 011 donkey-baek; p. 332), and connected with it by means of
a substratum of limestone, consists of a very hard meioeene eonglomerate of sand, pebbles, and fragments of fossil wood, cemented
together by means of silicic acid, and coloured red or yellowish
brown with oxide of iron. According to Frees, the two colossal statues at Thebes are composed of rock from the'Red Mountain'. For
many centuries the quarries here have yielded excellent and durable millstones, and the neighbouring huge heaps of debris afford
abundant material for the construction of the macadamised roads
of Cairo and Alexandria. Similar meiocene formations, which owe
their origin to an eruption of hot springs impregnated with silicic
acid, occur to the S.E. of the Gebel el-Ahmar, in the direction of
the Petrified Forest, and even in a side-valley of the Gebel Giyfishi.
A railway now encircles the whole of the hill, being used for carrying away the conglomerate and the subjacent limestone yielded by
its quarries. Messrs. Fraas and Unger have found a few examples
of freshwater conchylia among the fossils of the Gebel el-Ahmar.

The Red Mountain undoubtedly owes its origin to an eruption of
silicic springs, which forced their way through the tertiary limestone
rock; and to similar agency is probably to be ascribed the mud-volcano
near Abfl Zn'bul, beyond Khfinhah, 4-5 hrs. to the N. of this point. A
little to the E. of Mid Za'bel, on the borders of the very smooth slope
of the sandy desert, protrudes a black basaltic tufa rock, which has not
reached the well-known crystallised form of basalt, but is in an amorphous
condition, exactly resembling the black blocks lying on the E. side of the
Great Pyramid of Gizeh. As there are traces of very ancient quarries
near Abit Ze'hel, these blocks may possibly have been brought thence.

Moses' Spring and the Petrified Forest.

Since the time of the French expedition the'Petrified Forest near
Cairo', as part of the Gel)?! Khrtshab is now called, has become one of the
sights of Egypt which almost every traveller makes a point of visiting.
To the natives the Petrified Forest is known as the'Great' and the'Little
Grebe ] Khashab'. The scientific traveller will find a visit to the former
extremely interesting, but most travellers will be satisfied with an excursion to the latter, the outskirts of which may be reached in 11/2 hour.
The expedition may be made in half-a-day on donkey-back. Carriages
require extra horses, and even then sometimes stick in the sand.

A few drops of bitter and brackish water which trickle from a cleft
in a narrow and rocky side-valley of the Molgattarn are quite erroneously
called um Mam, or Noses' s; y, but a visit to this spot (scarcely
1/21". from the month of the valley) is interesting, and may easily be
combined with the excursion to the Petrified Forest.

The services of a guide may be dispensed with, as every donkey-boy
is well acquainted with the route to the Little Petrified Forest, but a
visit to the'Great', near the Bit cl-Fahmeh, can hardly be accomplished
without the aid of a well-informed dragoman.

Leaving the Bib en-Nasir (Pl. B, 2; p. 280), we turn to the
right to the Tombs of the Khams, pass close to the burial-mosque
of Sultan Barbi ]; Cp, 2821, and, between the Mokattam and the
limestone substrate of the'Red Mountain' (see above), cross a raised ledge of rock, forming a kind of threshold to the first desert

BAEDEKER'S Egypt l, 2nd Ed. 22






