338 Route f MOSES' SPRING. Environs

valley towards the E., into which the E. spurs of the Mokattam
descend. Near a shallow quarry, in the middle of the valley, the
well-defined desert track turns towards the S. After a ride of
1/4 hr., during which an isolated hill of red and black sandstone
resembling the t ted Mountain" is visible in the desert on our left,
we cross a deep, dry water-course, The path divides here. That to
the right leads to Moses' Spring and the Little Petrified Forest (see
below), while that to the left is the route to the Great Petrified
Forest and the Bit el-Fahmeh (p. 340).

Following the path to the right, we observe a yellowish hill at
the foot of the spurs of the Molgattam, and reach it in 1/4 hr. more.
This hill stands at the mouth of the narrow, winding valley, 11/4 M.
in length, through which the path to Moses' Spring ascends over
large blocks of stone and rubble. The ravine terminates in a
lofty amphitheatre of rock, which affords welcome shade. Near
it stands a fig-tree, which the quarrymen have enclosed with a wall
to protect it from the wind. In the higher angle of the valley to
the right is the cleft in the rock from which issues the'Spring of
Noses', arbitrarily so named. The chief attraction of the gorge consists in the numerous desert plants and the fossils it contains.

In order to reach the smaller Petrified Forest, we return to the
mouth of the gorge at the foot of the hill above mentioned, turn to
the right, and proceed towards the S., skirting the slopes of the
Mokattam, which are here more precipitous. We then cross a black
projecting rock, which has a glazed appearance, and pass through
a square gap in the rock, beyond which we observe opposite to us
gently sloping hills, consisting of limestone, marl, and beds of
fossil oysters. The route ascends, a little to the right, between
these hills, and soon reaches the plateau of the Grebe ] Khashab,
where the scattered fragments of fossil wood indicate the beginning
of the Little Petrified Forest. The farther S. we proceed across this
plateau, the more numerous do the fossil trunks become; but they
are inferior in length and thickness to these an the Bir el-Fahmeh
o. 340). Almost all these trunks and fragments have been ascertained by linger to belong to the same tree, which he has named
the Nicolia IEgyptiaca. On examining the grain microscopically,
he found that it did not belong to the palm family, but was more
akin to the cotton--plant. The trunks show traces of ramification,
but do not now possess either roots or boughs. Whether the trees
once grew here, or were floated hither by water, became embedded in
the sand, and afterwards converted into stone, is still a matter of
controversy. Fraas (see below) is of opinion that the formation resembles that of brown coal of the meioeene period, but that the
trunks, instead of becoming carbonised, were converted into flint
owing to the abundant presence of silica in the sandstone and to
the peculiarity of the climate, which appears to have been much
the same at that remote period as at the present day.

_____4






