of Cairo. PETRIFIED FOREST. J. Route. 339

'Numerous huge trunks of a kind of balsam-tree lie in every direction among the sand or in the strata of meiocenc sandstone. The structure
of the wood is as follows. There are no annual rings. The wood consists of prosenchymal and parenchymal cells, variously distributed, the
latter having both thick and thin divisions Dotted vessels, filled with
cells, are scattered throughout the tissue, either singly or in groups, and
short in their articulation. These vessels are divided into chambers, all
the walls being alike, but the outer w Is are sometimes without these
divisions, the radiating marks are prolonged by means of a series of 1-4
parenchymal cells. A comparison of the fossil wood with living varieties
shows that the vessels of the Sterculia and Astrapaea woods are grouped
in the same way, and Unger therefore considers it probable that the wood
of the Nicolia belonged to the Byttneriaceie or to the Sterculiaceze. Thousands of these Nicolia trunks are exposed to view in the desert of Khashab. Where the sandstone became disintegrated and in course of time
was converted into the sand of the desert, there the silicised trunks
were gradually disengaged from their sandstone bed, and they now
cover the surface of the Little Khashab for a distance of 10-15 miles,
and that of the'Great' for a far greater distance. Travellers who are
not familiar with the appearance of a vein of coal will be greatly struck
by the appearance of this formation, regarding which all kinds of fanciful theories have been set up. The geologist, however, will simply
regard it as akin to the coal-measures of the meiocene period, with this
difference, that, while the waters of Europe favoured the preservation of
the carbon and the fibre of the wood, the silicious sandstone of the Molgattani converted the tissue of the wood into silicic acid. The climatic
changes, moreover, which have taken place in the region of the Nile
since the meiocene period are doubtless much the same as those which
must have affected the interior of Germany, where the brown coal is
chiefly formed of the remains of balsam-poplars and cypresses.' (Fiona)

Crossing the plateau of the Petrified Forest for about 20 min.
more towards the S., we suddenly reach the B. slopes of the Molgattam, through a gap in which, at a spot now concealed by sand,
a path descends past table-shaped ledges of calcareous marl, formed
by erosion, into the lthlt et-Tih [ more correctly th'uli Dughla),
or'valley of wanderings'. On the S. horizon rise the hills of Tum
(p. 405 ], recognisable by the old fortress on their right spur and by
two heights exactly opposite to us, of which that to the left somewhat
resembles a coffin in shape, while that to the right is of semicircular
form. Crossing the bottom of the valley in this direction (8.), we
perceive in the Tara hills the entrance to a desert gorge, bounded
by lofty and precipitous slopes. This valley extends for many
miles in various windings, communicates with the ravines of the
desert which begin in the Gebel Khof near Helwan, and is abundantly stocked with the plants peculiar to the desert.

We may return from the Little Petrified Forest through the
'Valley of Wanderings', skirting the S. and W. slopes of the Mokattam, passing the Tombs of the Mamelukes, and entering the city
by the Place Mohammed rAli at the foot of the Citadel. Another
interesting return-route is across the Mokattam hills to the Giyfishi
eminence o. 335). Thence to the city, see p. 336.

A visit to the GREAT PETRIFIED FOREST near Bh el-Fahmeh
(ihrs, to the E. of Cairo, and 21/2 hrs. beyond the Little Petrified
Forest) takes a whole day, and is fatiguing, especially as the tra
age




















