340 Route J. PETRIFIE Environs



veller has the sun in his face both a going and returning; but itis
interesting to geologists. The route is not easily found (p. 338 ];
the "filth et-Tih (p. 339) forms the best starting-point (comp. Maps,
pp. 316, 398).

We leave Cairo by the BO ol-NUM/O Cpl. G, 2 ], was the
Tombs of the Mamelukes, and, leaving the village of llasatiu on the
right, ascend to the left by the Jewish Cemetery. After reaching
the top of the hill in the Wadi et-Tih (whence we observe the entrance of the rocky ravine mentioned at p. 339 to the right), we
follow the valley towards the E. for 11/4-11/9 hr. more. Above the
gradual slopes of the desert, about 11/4 M. to the left, we then
perceive several reddish hills and another of yellowish colour in
front. Riding towards the latter, we reach on its E. slopes the debris of the Bit el-Fahmeh ['coal well") and remains of some walls,
dating from the period (1840) when Mohammed rAli caused a
search for coal to be made here. The shaft is said to be 600 ft. in
depth, the bottom being 200 ft. below the level of the Nile. No
coal, however, was found. The hills of the desert to the N., N.\\'.,
and W. of the Bit el-Fahmeh are thickly strewn with trunks and
fragments of fossil timber. Some of the trunks which are exposed
to view measure 65400 ft. in length, and are upwards. of 3 ft.
thick at the lower end. They are generally brown and black, with
a polished appearance, and frequently contain chalcedony.

A sand-hill 1/? hr. to the N. of Bir el--Fahmeh, to the base of
which the Forest extends, affords a good survey of the district.
To the N.W. are the Mokattam, the'Red Mountain' (p. 337 ], fAbbasiyeh, and the plain of the Nile. We may now return in this direction, keeping to the N. of the Mokattam hills (comp. Map,
p. 328), following a level desert valley. The way cannot be mistaken, but is not easy to find in the reverse direction without an
experienced guide, as the point for which we are bound, not bemg
conspicuous, is likely to be missed, and there are no good landmarks
on the route beyond the Spring of Moses, opposite to which it enters
the valley between the Moha tam and the Gebel el-Ahmar.

The Pyramids of Gizeh.

Now that there is a good road from Cairo to the Pyramids of Gizeh, the excursion is generally made by carriage (20-25 (rs, a drive
of 11/; a drive
of 11/21.; donkey, 2111's.). Travellers formerly crossed the Nile at
Old u in) and rode thence to Climb. The inspection of the Pyramids
takes 2 hrs. at least (p. 3-13), the whole exuursion thus occupying 5 hrs,
so that the traveller can return to Cairo in time for dinner. Those who
intend spending a whole day at Gizeh should take provisions with them.
Candles will also he required [ and magnesium wire is recommended), if
the Inn Her v its the interior of the Great Pyramid (see p. 356) or of
any of the other tombs.

A visit to Sakkara to. 371) combined with the excursion to Gizeh
taken under ordinary circumstances two days, and, unless the traveller
1'4 content to pass the. night in a cavern, requires a tent and adragmuan,
so that lhe wlmlc expedition is somewhat troublesome and costly. Those



