of Cairo. THE PYRAMIDS Ob" (1121111. g, Route. 341

who do not care to ride the whole way send donkeys to Gizeh on the
day before they start drive thither early in the morning and dismiss
the carriage there (the fare being hardly less than for the journey there
and back), and ride in the afternoon or evening along the outskirts of
the desert to Sahhara, where the night is spent On the following morning
the 11111111 mas by the site of the ancient Memphis and through palm
groves to the railway-station of Bedrashén. Railway thence to Bulak
ed Dakrur, the station for Cairo, together with fares and the time occupied
by the journey see p. 37.

A visit to Helwan (p. 1103 ] may also be combined with the lastrnentioned excursion if the traveller crosses the river with his donkey
near Bedrashfin, and passes the night in the hotel at0elwiin.Cairo may
thenoge regained on the third day on donkey-back, or by the railway
(p 4 J

Travellers who do not fear a little extra exertion and who are satisfied with a rapid inspection of the pyramids may visit Gizeh atid 5111111111
in one day by observing the following directions Leaving Cairo at S a.m.,
we drive to Bedrashén and ride thence to Sakkara (p. 371 ]; quitting the
latter at 2 p. m. we next ride along the edge of the desert to the pyramids,
which we reach about 1% hr before dusk The drive back from the
pyramids, where a carriage should he ordered to meet us, is most agreeable when a moonlight night has been chosen for the excursion.

One of the Line and calm days of which there is no lack at Cairo
should be selected for the excursion, the driving sand in windy weather
being very unpleasant.

hear Kacr can-Nit we cross the Nile by the great iron bridge
o. 308). On the opposite bank we leave Gazirch o. 328), to
which an avenue leads. on the right. The greenhouses and gardeners' dwellings belonging to the Khedive also lie on the right.
To the left of the road leading across the island we observe the
lofty chimney of a water-pump, and the private gas-manufactory
of the Khedive. A second and smaller bridge then crosses the
other branch of the Nile, which was long choked with mud, but
which has lately been re-opened, so that the name of Gezireh
(i. e. island) is now justifiable (comp. p. 329). Immediately
beyond the bridge rises a Karalgol (Turk.'guard-house'), the road
passing which leads to the railway station of 13111311; ed-Dakrih
o. 371) and to a palace of Tush" Pasha. The road to Gizeh, which
is well kept and is shaded by beautiful lebbek trees. diverges to
the left by the second bridge. Near the entrance to the viceroyal
gardens of Gizeh, which are bounded on the S. by an extensive palace, are Waterworks for the raising and distribution of the water,
immediately beyond which the road turns to the right. On the left
rises the high wall enclosing the property of the Khedive, and on
the right are palaces of the princes Husén and Hasah Pasha (none
of which are shown to visitors). After crossing the Upper Egyptian
railway, the road leads between the railway ton the left) and the
canal (on the right) towards the S to the private station of the
Khedive, and thence to the right, direct towards the Pyramids.
Or we may follow the better road along the Nile, keeping the wall
of the palace to our right. The now decayed village of Gizeh
(which was a railway-station until recently. but has ceased to be
so since the opening of the Bt1lstlr ed-Dalcrttr station), which we






