'31? Route J. THE Primnos or eizen. Environs

leave to the left, is said by Leo Africanus to have once contained
magnificent palaces, which the Mameluke princes afterwards used
as a summer-residence, and it was a place of some commercial
importance in the middle ages A line of fortification between this
point and the Nile, which once protected the entrance to the town
on the left bank of the river, has entirely disappeared. On this
part of the read two bridges are crossed; on the left lie the huts of
two felli Jin villages, E.t- Talbiych and Et-Kém et-xlstvad. The fields
on each side are intersected by canals and cuttings, containing more

or less water according to the season. Small white herons, erroneously supposed to be the ibis, and vultures with light and dark
plumage are frequently observed here. The huge angular forms of

the Pyramids now loom through the morning mist, and soon stand

out in clear outlines, with all the injuries they have sustained during the lapse of thousands of years.

A few hundred yards before the road begins to ascend, it is protected against the encroachments of the sand by a wall bit. in
height. On the left are a Sahiyeh (water-wheel) and stables, and
on the right a building once destined to be a hotel, the establishment of which the Ileduins, apprehensive of infringement of their
rights, succeeded in preventing. Carriages have usually to stop
here on account of the sand, and the occupants have to complete
the excursion on foot; the best walking is on the top of the wall.
The road, 26 ft. in width, and now flanked with walls 61/2 ft. in
height, winds up the slope to the left, and reaches the plateau 130
yds. from the N.W. corner of the Pyramid of Cheeps. Near the
NE. angle of the Pyramid is the Viceroyat Kiosquc CPI. a), where
the custodian will generally give visitors the use of some of the
rooms on the ground-floor on payment of a fee.

The H3eduins of Gizeh', who surround the carriage and importune
travellers long before the Pyramids are reached. and who strew the last
part of the road with sand in order that they may have a pretext for assist- i
ing carriages up the hill, are very pertinaeinus in their attentions and
exorbitant in their demands. No attention should be paid [ 0 their demonstrations at first, but one of them may be afterwards engaged for the
ascent of the Great Pyramid and a visit to the other antiquities. With
the aid of the annexed plan the traveller might indeed easily dispense
with their services, but as they seem to regard the privilege of escorting travellers as a kind of birthright, he had better engage one of them
for the sake of avoiding farther impnrtunities.

The Prlmzums on Gillan occupy a plateau gradually ascending
from 1' ]. to \\'., the l' }. and N. margins of which are very precipitous at places, and extending about 1600 yds. from 1' }. to W., and
1300 yds. from N. to S. The three great Pyramids are so situated
on this plateau that a line drawn from the N.r'., to the ti.W. to the H.W. angle
of the largest pyramid is exactly in a line with the diagonal of the
second pyramid, while the diagonal of the third pyramid is parallel
with that line. These Pyramids are thus built exactly facing the
four points of the compass. although the magnet seems to show an












