I

of Cairo. THE Prnmnns OF GiZEH. J. Route. 313

inclination of 8° 30' towards the W. Smaller (anti uninteresting
pyramids rise to the E. of the Great Pyramid and immediately to
the S. of the third. To the "at the Great, and to the E. of the
second and third pyramids, aresituated the Sphinx, the adjacent
temple of granite, a deep rock--tomb [ Campbell's Tomb), and an
isolated stone building. Numerous tombs (magmas), almost all in
ruins, surround the Great Pyramid and extend over the plateau to
the E. and W., or are hewn in the form of grottoes in the external
rocky slope towards the E. and in a ledge of rock to the SE of the
second pyramid.

CHIEF ATTRACTIONS. Those who are pressed for time should
devote their attention to the wGreat Pyramid (p. 354; explore the
interior, and ascend to the summit), the "Sphinx (p. 362), the
*Granite Temple (p. 3651, *Campbell's Tomb (p. 367), and the
Tomb of Numbers (p. 366). The inspection of these chief objects
of interest, which we describe first, occupies about? Us.; but
those whose time permits, and who desire to form an accurate idea
of the topography of the whole area, should make the *Circuit described at p. 367, which will occupy 11/242. hrs. more. Most of the
tombs (p. 368) are so badly preserved that they are not worth visiting, unless the traveller is unable to undertake the excursion to
Sahkara.

The Pyramids 1'.
'Everything fears time, but time
fears the Pyramids'.
'Abdella.tty' (Arabian physician,
born at Baghdad in 1161).

The Pyramids within the precincts of the Necropolis of the
ancient capital city of Memphis are the oldest and most wonderful
monuments of human industry yet discovered. They stand on the
margin of the plateau of the Libyan desert, along a line about 25 M.
in length, and may be divided into the five groups of Abfi Itoash
(p. 370), Gizeh (p. 340), Zéwyet el-'Arytul and Abusir (p. 370 ].
Satstsira (p. 3800, and Dahshtlr Cp. 402). Beyond the boundaries
of Egypt, to the s., there also occur the Ethiopian pyramids in the
island of Meroeh near Begerawiyeh, at Nfiri, and on the Gebel
Barkal; but these Ethiopian structures, as Lepsius has shown, are
comparatively recent imitations of the Egyptian, those at Min and
on the Gebel Barkal dating from the 7th cent. 3.0. at the earliest,
and those of Begerawiyeh from the lst century.

History of the Erection of the Pyramids. Manetho has ascribed
the erection of the First Pyramid, which was surnamed that'of
Cochome' (comp. p. 389), to the fourth king of the lst Thinite
Dynasty (p. 86 ], but the statement is very improbable. The first

+ The name, according to some authorities is derived from the Egyptian Pi-Rama ('the mountain'), and according to others from nupog, wheat,
and Hm", a measure






