MUSICIANS If)

and the oftener is the narrator applauded with protracted cries of
'Ash', or'Allah', or'Allfihu akbarl'.

The story-teller generally occupies a small stool on the mastaba,
whence he delivers his address. Most of the members of this class
belong to the so-called sho'um (sing. shri'ir), literally'singers'.
They are also known as "zlndtireh (sing.'Antari) or Abu-Zédiych,
according as their theme consists of tales and romances from the
history of'Antar, a Beduin hero, or from that of Abu Zéd. Others
again are called Molzctdditin, i. e. narrators of history, their province
being the recital in prose of passages from the history of Sultan
E Tilsir Béhars, who reigned over Egypt in 1260-77 (p 104).
The entertainments of the'ulf léleh u [ Eleh7 [ thousand and one
nights) are, however, no longer heard, as popular superstition has
branded this collection of tales as'unlucky'. There are also professional improvisors and travelling singers, whose performances are
very popular; but the themes of the whole fraternity are too often
of an immoral character.

MUSICIANS by profession. called Lildttyeh (sing. man), are indispensable on every festive occasion. The usual instruments are
the watch or tambourine with little bells, the nahlcdrch, or semispherical tambourine, the Gemr or hautbois, the tub; beledi or
drum, the .tabl shami 0); kettle-drum, and the dambftltelt, a kind
of funnel-shaped drum (generally made of earthenware, but sometimes of mother-of-pearl and tortoise-shell, with a fish--skin stretched over the broad end), which last is accompanied by the zummém,
a kind of double flute. A better class of instruments, used for
chamber music, consists of the wit, a kind of flute, the kemengch or
two-stringed violin, the body of which consists of a cocca-nnt shell,
the rebdbch, or one-stringed violin with a square wooden body, the
(minim, a kind of zither with strings of sheep-gut, and lastly the
"rid, the lute or mandoline, the oldest of all the instruments.

The Egyptians consider themselves a highly musical people, and the
traveller will indeed often he struck by the frequency of their singing.
The Egyptian sings when indulging in his her (p. 23), whether sitting
on his heels or stretched out on his mat, when driving his donkey, when
carrying stones and mortar up a scaffolding, when working in the fields,
and when rowing. He sings whether alone or in company, regarding his
vocal music as a means of lightening his labour and of sweetening his
repose. A peculiarity of the Egyptian songs, however, is that they have
no tune, though they have a certain rhythm, which is always dependent
on the text. They are sung through the nose on seven or eight different
notes, on which the performer wanders up and down as he feels inclined. + The character of this su-called music is exceedingly monotonous,
and to a European ear displeasing. The songs (mawwttl or shughl) are all of

a lyrical description, most of them are erotic and often grossly obscene,
and many are at the same time pointless and meaningless. Some of

, In the large work entitled the' an endeavour is
made to reduce Arabic music to a system, and the notes are divided
into seven different keys, each having the same notes, differently arranged;
but the popular songs are sung without the least regard to these artificial
rules.

2 > 5:



