34l Route J. THE PYllAMll) S til" GIZI'ZII. Environs

Egyptian monuments which bear the names of their founders date
from the time of Sncfm, who formed a link between the 3rd and
4th Dynasties. That monarch was the immediate predecessor of
I1hu/'u Cor Chapman 3007, 43),
and Jfenlcuurt Cor Mtjcerimrs, 3043 -20), the builders of the Great
Pyramids (romp. pp. 86, 344-347). It continued customary to
build pyramids down to the 12111 Dynasty (B. C. 2300); but at a
later period, especially after the residence ofthe Pharaohs had been
removed from Memphis to Thebes, the kings, as well as their subjects, seem to have preferred rock-tombs to mansolca above ground. l
The Greeks were much struck by these monuments when they first
came to Egypt, and even erected similar ones themselves (as at
Cenohrezo), akin to the Mastabas (p. 379:). The Pyramids are
therefore invariably described by Greek travellers-1', as well as by
their successors, and they afterwards became famous as one of the
greatest wonders of the world.

Herodotus, though ill informed as to the history of the founders
of the Pyramids, describes the structures themselves admirably,
like everything else he saw in person Cheops (I (hutu ], according to his statement, was addicted to every kind of vice; he closed
the temples, prohibited the offering of sacrifices, and oppressed the
whole nation by exacting compulsory labour. Some of his subjects
were employed by him in quarrying block: of stone among the Arabian mountain, and in transporting them to the Nile, others had
to ferry these stones across the river, while others again conveyed
them to the base of the Libyan mountains H.'Now there were
about 100,000 men employed annually for three months in each of
these tasks. They took ten years to make the road for the transport
of the stones, which, in my opinion, must have been almost as
laborious a task as the building ofthe Pyramid itself; for theleuglh
of the road amounts to five stadia (1017ydsJ, its breadth is ten
fathoms [ GO ft), and its height, at the highest places, is eight
fathoms (481%.), and it is constructed entirely of polished stone
with figures engraved on it Hi Ten years were thus consumed in
making this road and the subterranean chambers on the hill occupied by the Pyramids, which the king caused to be excavated as
his burial-place, having made it an island by conducting a canal
thither from the Ni (As to this erroneous statement, see p as.)

















1' According to I'liny, the Pyramids have been described by Ilem(lotus, Duris Samius Arisioywras, Artemidorus,
Alexander I'olyhistor. liutoridcs, Antisthencs. Demetrius. lleinota'les, and
Anion. to whom we might add Strabn, lliodorus, l'oniponins Mela, and
others.'l'hc-y are mentioned by Aristotle.

H llerndntus is accurate in his statement as to the origin of the
slum. most of that used in the construction of the Pyramids having been
quarried on the E. hunk of the Nile (11.40.51.

iii This route is slill traceable. and was even restored at a lat-er
period for the. removal of stones from the Pyramids tn the Nile. Il hermiualed on the E. side of the Pyramid of (5111111115 (see Plan).





