of Cairo. Tun PYRAMIDS or oiznn. J. Route. 345

Now the construction of the Pyramid occupied twenty years f. Each
of the sides, which face the different points of the compass, for
there are four sides, measures eight plethra (820 ft.) and the height
is the same. It is covered with polished stones, well jointed, none
of which is less than thirty feet long.'

'This pyramid was first built in the form of a flight of steps.
After the workmen had completed the pyramid in this form, they
raised the other stones (used for the incrustation ] by means of
machines, made of short beams, from the ground to the first tier
of steps; and after the stone was placed there it was raised to the
second tier by another machine; for there were as many machines
as there were tiers of steps; or perhaps the same machine, if it was
easily moved, was raised from one tier to the other, as it was required for lifting the stones. The highest part of the pyramid was
thus finished first, the parts adjoining it were taken next, and the
lowest part. next to the earth, was completed lastff. It was
recorded on the pyramid. in Egyptian writing, how many radishes,
onions. and roots of garlic had been distributed among the workmen,
and if I rightly remember what the interpreter (p.'13) who read
the writing told me Hi, the money they cost amounted to sixteen
hundred talents of silver (upwards of 3130,0001.) if this was really
the case, how much more must then have been spent on the iron
with which they worked, and on the food and clothing of the
workmen, seeing that they worked for the time already mentioned,
and I believe that no shorter time could have been occupied with
quarrying and transporting the stones, and with the work and the
excavations under the surface of the earth.'

'CheOps is said to have reigned fifty years in Egypt, and to have
been succeeded in the kingdom by his brother Chephren. who acted
exactly in the same manner as his brother, and who also erected a
pyramid, which, however, is not of so great dimensions (for we
measured this one also). This pyramid does not contain subterranean chambers, nor is a channel conducted to it from the Nile
[ comp p. 3560. Chephren constructed the foundations of coloured
Ethiopian stone (granite of Assuan), but the pyramid was forty
feet lower than the other, heat which he erected it; for both stand





' It is not quite clear whether Herodotus means that the 100,000
men were occupied 20 or 30 years in building the Pyramid of Cheops,
as he does not say whether it was the building above the subterranean
chambers. or the whole of the structure, that took twenty years.

"This account of the mode in which the pyramid was constructed
has been entirely confirmed by modern investigations (cump. p. 3301.

ttt If inscriptions, now destroyed, really once existed on the outside
of the pyramid, they doubtless contained much more important information than that which the interpreter professed to read. It is. more
over, unlikely that the interpreters, who attended traveller like the
dragomans of the present day, were able to read hieroglyphics. They
probably repeated more popular traditions regarding the pyramids and
other monuments, with embellishments and exaggerations of their own.



