345 Route J.'l'lll'I PYRAMID." GiZEn. Environs

on the same hill, at a height of about a hundred feet. Chephren is
said to have reigned fifty-sis years.'

"This makes altogether a hundred and six years, during which
the Egyptians suffered all kinds of oppression, and the temples
constantly remained closed. Owing to their hatred of these two
kings, the people would not even mention their names, and they
even call the pyramids after a shepherd named Philitis, who at that
period pastured his flocks in the neighbourhood".

'After this king (Chephren), Myeerinus, the son of Cheops, is
said to have reigned over Egypt, He is said to have had no pleasure
in the conduct of his father, but to have re-opened the temples and
to have allowed the people, reduced to extreme distress, to return
to their occupations and the worship of the gods. He is also said
to have pronounced the most just judgments of all the kings.'

'Ire, too, left behind him a pyramid, but a much smaller one
than that built by his father. Each of its sides measures 280 feet
only, and half of it consists ofEthiopian stone. Some ofthe Greeks
state that this was the pyramid of Rhodopis, a eourtezan; but they
are wrong; nay, when they maintain this, they do not seem to me
even to know who this Rhodopis was, for she flourished in the time
of King Amasis, and not in the reign of this king (comp. p. 348 ].'

The account given by Diodorus Siculns Li. 63, (Vi) is as follows:
-'The eighth king was Chembes, the Memphite, who reigned
lifty years. He built the largest of the three pyramids, which
were reckoned among the seven wonders of the world. They are
to be found in the direction of Libya, 120 stadia distant from
Memphis, and io from the Nile. The sight of these great masses
and their artistic construction excites surprise and admiration. The
base of the largest, the plan of which is quadrilateral, is seven
plethra (_700 ft.) on each side; and the height is more than six
plethra. The sides gradually contract towards the top, where
each is still sis. cubits broad. The whole building is of hard
stone, difficult to how, and it is ofeverlasting duration. l'ornoless
than a thousand (some writers even say three thousand) years are
said to have elapsed from the building of the pyramids down to
the present time; and yet these stones, in their original jointing,
and the whole structure are preserved uninjured by time. The
stones are said to have been brought all the way from Arabia,
and the building to have been erected by means of embankments,
as no lifting machines had yet been invented. And the most
wonderful thing is, that, around the place where this enormous
work is built, nothing is to be found but sandy soil, and thereisno
trace either of the embankment or of the hewing, r of the stones; so
that one might believe that the whole mass had not been gradually
on-vtml by human hands, but had been placed by some god in this






















"reminiscence of the llyksns (p. 88), in whom, even
at a later period, every national misfortune was popularly attributed.



