of Cairo. THE PYRAMIDS or GiZEH. 4. Route. 347

sandy plain in a finished condition The Egyptians attempt partly
to explain this by the miraculous story that the embankment:
consisted of salt and saltpetre, and that they were melted by an
inundation; that they thus disappeared, while the solid building
remained. But this was not really the case; it was more probably
the same number of human hands employed in throwing up the
embankments which removed them and cleared the ground. It is
said that 360,000 men were compulsorily employed in the work,
and that the whole was scarcely completed within a period of
twenty years'l'.'

'On the death of this king, his brother Chephren succeeded to
the throne. He reigned fifty-six years. According to others the
successor was not a brother of the last king, but a son of his, named
Chabryis. In this, however, all the accounts agree, that, imitating
his predecessor, he erected the second pyramid, which is indeed as
artistically built as the first, but is not nearly so large, each side
of the area being a stadium only (193 yds.)... The kings had
built these pyramids as tombs. and yet neither of them is buried
in them. For they were so hated on account of the excessively
laborious work imposed by them and their many cruelties and
oppressions, that the people threatened to drag their bodies from
their tombs with derision and to tear them to pieces. Both, therefore, commanded their relatives, before their deaths, to bury them
quietly in some unknown place.'

'These kings were succeeded by Myeerinns (whom some call
1leneuerinus) a son of the builder of the first pyramid. He resolved
to erect a third pyramid, but died before the work was finished.
Each side of the area he made 300 feet long. He caused the sides
to be constructed, up to the fifteenth tier, of black stone, resembling the Theban. For the completion of the remaining part he
employed the kind of stone which had been used for the other pyramids Although this work is inferior to the others in point of
size, it is superior in its much more artistic construction and its
valuable stone. The name ofMycerinns, the builder of the pyramid,
is inscribed on its N. side.'

'This king is said to have abhorred the cruelty of his predecessors, and to have endeavoured to be courteous to every one and
to become the benefactor of his subjects. He is said to have sought
in every possible way to gain the affection of his subjects, and
among other things to have presented large sums at the public
courts of law to honest people who were thought to have lost their
causes undeservedly. There are three other pyramids, the sides of
which are 900 feet long In their whole construction they resemble
the others, but not in size. The three kings already named are

, These 300,000 workmen la number perhaps based on the 360 days
of which the old Egyptian year consisted). like the 100,000 men vi' Hern(lotus, who were relieved every three months, are doubtless a mere myth.



