345 Route J. THE PYRAMIDS or Gillan. Environs

said to have erected them for their wives. These works are unquestionably the most remarkable in all Egypt, whether in respect
of the size of the buildings and their cost, or the skill of the artists.
And it is thought that the architects deserve even more admiration
than the kings who defrayed the cost; for the former contributed to
the completion of the work by mental power and praiseworthy exertion, but the latter only by the wealth they had inherited and the
labour of others Neither the natives, however, nor the historians
at all agree in their accounts of the pyramids. For some maintain
that they were built by these three kings, and others that they were
built by different persons'.

Strabo's account is remarkably graphic and concise: - ur you
go l'orty stadia from the city (of Memphis), you come to a hill on
which stand many pyramids, the burial-places of kings. Three are
particularly remarkable, and two of these are even reckoned among
the seven wonders. They are square in form and a stadium in height,
and this height is only slightly greater than the length of each
side. One pyramid, too, is a little larger than the other. A
moderate distance up one of its sides, this pyramid has a stone
which can be taken out When it is removed, an oblique passage
within leads to the tomb. These pyramids are near each other in
the same open space; and a little higher up the hill is the third,
much smaller than these two, but erected in a much more costly
style. For, from its foundation nearly up to the middle, it consists
of a black stone, of which mortars are also made, and which is
brought from a long distance, namely from the mountains ofEthiepin. Owing to its hardness and the difficulty of working it, the
building is rendered expensive".

Strabo then speaks of the fossils resembling lentils, mentioned
at p. 336, but does not share the view current at that period
that they were the petrified remains of the workmen's food. With
regard to lthodopis, who is mentioned at p. 346, he tells the
following tradition, resembling the tale of the modern Cinderella.
While llhodopis was bathing, an eagle carried off one of her shoes,
carried it to Memphis, and dropped it into the lap of the king, who
was then sitting on the judgment seat. The king, admiring the
neatness of the shoe, and surprised at the strangeness of the occurrence, sent out messengers to search for the owner of the shoe. She
was found at Naukratis and brought to the king, who made her his
wife, and on her death erected the third pyramid to her memory.

Pliny speaks somewhat slightingly of the Pyramids :--~'We
must also in passing mention the Pyramids in this same Egypt, an
idle and foolish display by the kings of their wealth; and indeed,
as most persons maintain, they had no other object in erecting them
than to deprive their successors, and rival: plotting against them,
of money, or perhaps for the purpose of keeping the people engaged.
The vanity of these people in this matter was very great'.






,






