of Cairo. THE PYRAMIDS OF GIZEII. J. Home. 349

His description of the Pyramids is borrowed without remark
from other authors. Thus he does not hesitate to repeat that embankments for the raising of the stones were made of saltpetre,
which was afterwards washed away, or of bricks, which on the
completion of the pyramid were distributed among private persons.
He also mentions Rhodopis.

Mas't'tdi, one of the Arabian Historians, says that the Pyramids
were built three hundred years before the flood by Sfirid, in consequence of the interpretation of a dream which predicted the deluge.
Having assured himself that the world would be repeopled after the
flood, he caused the Pyramids to be erected, the prophecy to be inscribed on their stones, and his treasures, the bodies of his ancestors, and records of the whole store of knowledge possessed by
his priests to he deposited in their chambers and recesses, in order
that they might be preserved for the benefit of those who should
come after the flood. According to a Coptic legend, he caused the
following inscription to be engraved on one of the Pyramids: 'l, King Sfirid, have built these Pyramids and completed them in
61 years. Let him who comes after me, and imagines he is a king
to compare with me, attempt to destroy them in 600 (years). It is
easier to destroy than to erect. ] have covered them with silk, - let
him dare to attempt to cover them with mate 1' A tradition recorded
by the same author resembles the German myth of the nymph of
the Lorelei t -'On the western Pyramid is enthroned a beautiful
naked woman with dazzling teeth, who allures desert wayfarers
from the south and west, embraces them in her arms, and deprives
them of reason".

'Fair Rhodope, as story tells,

The bright unearthly nymph, who dwells

'Mid sunless gold and jewels hid,

The lady of the Pyramid". (Moon's)

According to other myths the spirit of the Pyramid bears the
form of a boy, or that of a man, who hovers around it burning
incense.

The Pyramids have been frequently visited and described by
Christian travellers to Palestine on their way through Egypt. The
spurious itinerary of Antony of Piacenza of the Gth cent. states
that he visited the twelve granaries of Joseph (the Pyramids), and
the same notion was entertained by pilgrims as late as the Ath,
15th, and 16th centuries. It is worthy of remark that many of the
medieval travellers, even as late as the 17th cent., concur with the
most accurate of the Arabian authors in stating that they saw inscriptions on the Pyramids. Thus the knight of Nygenhusen, a
pilgrim who assumed the name of William of Boldensele (14th
cent), informs us that he saw inscriptions on the Pyramids in different languages, and he gives six verses of one of them in Latin.
'Abdellatif, speaking of the inscriptions on the Pyramids, which no






