350 Route 4. THE PYRAMIDS OF-GIZElI. Environs

one could decipher in his time, says that -'they are so numerous,
that, if one attempted to copy on paper those only which appear on
the surface of these two Pyramids (those of Cheops and Chephren ]
they would fill more than 10,000 pages'. A similar account is given
by 5rasidi, Makrizi, lbn Haukal, Edrisi, and other Arabs; and
yet on the iucrustation of Chefren's Pyramid which is preserved at
the top there is now no trace of a single letter. We must therefore
conclude that the slabs which have been removed once bore inscriptions, which were perhaps purposely destroyed.

Construction of the Pyramids, In consequence of the investigations of Lepsius and Erbkam, the mode in which the Pyramids were
erected and the meaning of the account given by Herodotus are now
well ascertained. The following questions have been asked by
Lepsius: - (1) How does it happen that the Pyramids are of such
different sizes? [ 2 ] After Cheops and Chephren had erected their
gigantic mausolea, how could their successors be satisfied with
monuments so much smaller. and of so different proportions?
(3) How is the fact to be accounted for, that an unfinished pyramid
is never met with? (A) How could Oheops, when he ascended the
throne and chose an area of 82,000 sq. yards for his monument,
know that his reign would be so unusually long as to enable him to
complete it? (5) If one of the builders of the great pyramids had
died in the second or third year of his reign, how could their sons
or successors, however willing to carry out the plan, have succeeded
in completing so gigantic a task, and in erecting monuments for themselves at the same time? And how comes it that many other kings did
not, like Cheops, boldly anticipate a reign of thirty years and begin
a work of the same kind, the design for which might so easily have
been drawn, and might so readily have been carried out by his subjects ?---- To all these questions the researches of Lepsius and Erbkam
afford but one entirely satisfactory answer.'Each king', says Lepsius
in his letters from Egypt,'began to build his pyramid when he ascended the throne. He began it on a small scale, in order that, if a short
reign should be in store for him, his tomb might be a complete one.
As years rolled on, however, he continued enlarging it by the addition of outer coatings of stone, until he felt that his career was
drawing to a close. If he died before the work was completed, the
last coating was then finished, and the size of the monument was
accordingly proportioned to the length of the builder's reign; so
that, had the progress of these structures always been uniform, it
would have almost been possible to ascertain the length of each
king's reign from the incrustations of his pyramid, in the same way
as the age of a tree is determined by the number of the concentric
rings in its trunk' .--The first step taken by the king's architect
was doubtless to level the surface of the rock on which the pyramid
was to be erected, leaving, however, any elevation in the centre of
the area untouched, to form a nucleus for the structure, and to save






