r

of Cairo. THE PYRAMIDS OF GIZEH. J. Route. 351

labour and material. The subterranean chambers were first excavated in the rock, and then extended into the superincumbent
masonry. A small building, in the form of a truncated pyramid,
with very steep walls, was first erected. If the king died at this
stage of the construction, a pyramidal summit was placed on the
structure, and its surface was then prolonged down to the ground
by filling up the angles formed by the nearly upright sides. If,
however, the king survived this first period in the pyramid's history,
a new series of stones was placed around it, and the same process
was repeated until each successive incrustation became in itself a
work of prodigious difficulty. The filling up of the angles could
then probably be safely entrusted to the piety of the monarch's
successor. The annexed plan will serve to illustrate this explanation.

The rock which in some cases served as the nucleus of the structure is marked a; the first part of the pyramid is b; on this was
placed the pyramidal summit c; the angles d were then filled up,
and a pyramid on the smallest scale was now completed. If time
permitted, the builder next proceeded to place the two blocks e next
to the blocks d, and above these the blocks f. To complete the
pyramid on the next largest scale, it was then necessary to crown it
with the summit g, and to till up the angles h and i. If, for some
reason or other, the angles were not filled up, the result was a SOcalled'step-pyramid' (p. 382 ].

I.

//\

am--














A confirmation of the accuracy of this theory is afforded by the
ascertained fact,'that the more nearly the interior of the pyramid
is approached, the more careful does the construction become, while
the outer crusts are more and more roughly and hastily executed,
in proportion as the probable time for their deliberate completion
gradually diminished'. The smallest pyramids always consist of the
simple structure already described. The outer sides of the complementary triangular stones were entirely polished, except when, as
in the case of the third pyramid, the whole surface was to be, as it
were, veneered with slabs of granite.

Object of the Pyramids. In accordance with the ancient Egyptian doctrine of the immortality of the soul (p. 139 ], it was necessary that the earthly tabernacle of the soul should be preserved.



