352 Route J. THE PYRAMIDS OF cizmr. Environs

In order to remove the bodies of the dead from the influence of the
inundation of the Nile, they were buried in the dry rocky soil of
the desert. Wealthy persons caused tomb-chambers o. 379) to be
excavated for themselves, while the kings, who wished to maintain
their royal pre-eminence even in death, were specially anxious to
ensure the durability and permanence of their tombs. The burialplace of a king was worthy, in their opinion, of being distinguished
by its situation and its magnitude; they desired that it should surpass all others in magnificence, and that the tomb--chamber should
be least capable of violation, It was probably, therefore, at first
customary to cover the rock-tomb of a king with blocks of stone, or
to raise a mound over it, if sand and earth were procurable in the
vicinity. The violent winds from the desert, however, rendered it
necessary to consolidate these mounds by covering them with stones.
The sepulchral mounds thus acquired a definite form; they became
square structures, tapering upwards, and gradually assumed the
pyramidal shape, ensuring the utmost strength and durability.
Opening of the Pyramids. The Pyramids are said first to have
been opened by the Persians (BU. 525-333 ], and it is certain that
they were examined by the Romans. The Arabs endeavoured to
penetrate into the interior of these stupendous structures, chiefly
in hope of finding treasures; and the greater the difficulties they
encountered, the more precious and worthy of concealment did
they imagine the contents to be. According to'Abdellatif, it
was Khalif Mamfin (A.D. 813-33), _ son of Harun er-liashid
(p. 101 ], who caused the Great Pyramid to be opened; but it is
probable that that prince merely continued the investigations ofhis
predecessors, as Dionysius, the Jacobite patriarch of Antioch, who
accompanied him, found that an entrance had alreadyheen effectedt
1lirnCm's workmen are said to have made a new entrance (p. 357 ]
adjacent to the old, with the aid of fire, vinegar, and projectiles.
With regard to the success of the undertaking there exist various
more or less highly embellished accounts by the Arabian historians;
but one thing appears certain, that the hopes of the explorers were
disappointed, and that nothing was found in the already plundered
chambers and corridors. According to some accounts, the gold found
here was exactly enough to defray the cost of the undertaking,
having possibly been introduced into the interior by the Khalif
himself, in order to obviate the reproach of having spent so much
money for nothing. Many of the Arabs relate, that, after the
workmen had penetrated to a considerable depth, they found a
vessel containing a considerable sum of gold coin, amounting,
strangely enough, to the exact sum which had been spent on the
investigation. Along with the treasure was found a marble slab,
hearing an old inscription to the effect that the money beside it
summed to pay for the work of the inquisitive king; but that, if he
attempted to penetrate farther, he would expend a large sum and

'1'



