of Cairo. THE PYRAMIDS OF Giznu. 4. Route. 353

find nothing. The vessel containing the treasure is said to have
consisted of an emerald, and to have been taken by Mirm1n to
Baghdad. Other fabulous stories are told of golden statues set with
jewels, amulets, talismans, and mummies, which were found here
in a golden cabinet, in a box in the form of a human figure, and in
a stone sarcophagus. Malirizi speaks of the sarcophagus which still
lies in the royal tomb-chamber as in his time, and another author
says that its cover here the words--'Abu Amad built the Pyramid
in 1000 days'.

We possess no definite information concerning the opening of the
second Pyramid, but'Abdellatif, who was himself present, gives
us an account of the attempted destruction of the Third Pyramid.
As early as the reign of Saladin (All 1109-93), the vizier Karakdsh used the Small Pyramids as a quarry for the material of which
he constructed various imposing edifices in Cairo, including the
Citadel. El-Melik el-'Aziz'Othman (1193-99,), Saladin's successor,
was persuaded by his courtiers to demolish the so-called'Ited Pyramid', or that of Menkaura. The sultan accordingly organised a party
of workmen for the purpose, under the supervision of some of his
nobles, caused a camp to be pitched at the base of the Pyramid,
and ordered them to begin the work of destruction. After eight
months ofincessant labour, however, the senseless undertaking,
which had cost enormous sums and prodigious exertions, had to be
abandoned.'Nothing was effected by the undertaking', says'Abdellatif,'but the shameful mutilation of the Pyramid, and the demonstration of the weakness and incapacity of the explorers. This
occurred about the year 593 of the Hegira CA. D. 1196 ]. When
the stones that have been removed are regarded at the present day,
one would think that the structure had been entirely destroyed,
but when one then looks at the Pyramid itself, one sees that it has
suffered no material damage, and that a part of its incrustation has
been stripped off on one side only' .---- The Pyramids were also used
as quarries at a later period, and even during the regime of Mohammed'Ali, who moreover is said to have been advised by a
prophet to destroy them. With the aid of gunpowder he might perhaps have succeeded in effecting what the workmen of the Khalif
had failed to do, had not his European friends represented to him
that the blasting operations would probably damage the city of Cairo.

The first modern traveller who carefully and successfully examined
the Pyramids was Nicholas Shaw in 1721; but he still entertained the
notion that the Sphinx had a subterranean connection with the Great
Pyramid. He was followed by Norden in 1737; Pococke in 1723, who
gives a plan and dimensions; Fourmont in Hue; Karsten Niebuhr in
1761; Davison in 1763. a most meritorious explorer, who discovered many
new facts concerning the interior of the Great Pyramid; Bruce in 1768;
Volney in 1783; Browne in 1792-98; Denon. Culllell umard. and other
savauts of the French expedition under Bonaparte in 17994801, Jnnmd
in particular has the merit of having taken very accurate measurements
but he exhibited more ingenuity than good sense in attributing to the
proportions of the building a hidden significance which they cannot be

BAEDEKER'S Egypt L 2nd Ed. 23






