20 FEMALE SINGERS.



them, however. extol the pleasures of friendship and rational enjoyment,
or express derision of an enemy, or contempt for the rustic fellah. Thus
a favourite song of thc donkey-boys derides a young fellah called'Ali, the
Favorite of his village, and is usually sung in mockery "Ali yd na's wilbds ll'ulldhgaf'tawd'fkum
Wd'if' (lla--l »' (tbbds Wlihrfllt baled mia d0!
rim clrbngds mum mam. ydm
um'anhu-at ethaddit Kulluh mm mm'Ah'
Nns u balm hum: 1vni yahi
KnHuh ram shdm mi Kulluh rata shrsm um:

1" ad leidtin y6m
Wal'antaret ethaddil Kulluh'ala shim'Alt'.

l'a'ni yaeni
Kulluh'ala shdn Uti.

1. Have you seen um. ye people, in shirt and drawers. standing on
the hridge of'Ahbfis and showing off his equestrian tricks? But the bridge
is now destroyed. and half the village has flown away. And all this for
'Ali's sake.

Q. llave you seen'Ali among you? If not, I will run off with your
skull-caps (p. 14) and will go into one of the villages and remain there
thirty days. All this for'Ali's sake, yes, for sun; sake.

The pleasures of linshish-snioking are thus extolled :--
(16th min el-hind wztmrakkeb'ttttha ghdb
Wttntdaadislteh bil tpat mungamm'n at utibliit
AK hum mama neres et-rng-z minni gnaw

mw ubuldum m e: gamut ymtwa'zymw

Tub'uléya ye mwwab

Mm shurb cl gaze }! wal gllabl

M "m t

Min simrb cl gdzeh wal ghab.

ltd ltd 111.2 +
Jim shm'b cl 96:21:. wul glzdb.

Oh cocoa-nut ff of India, in which is fixed the stem inlaid with shells,
that collects friends around it. I have taken a whiff from it - and my
understanding fled. I drew so that the tube gurgled like a camel. () h!
forgive me. thou Blotter out of sins! that I smoke out of the cocoa-nut
with its stem.

Thwarted love is another favourite theme. One of these songs begins
--110i, Mi, yri (mlu'bi! (come, come. oh beloved! come
and he my physician l). These songs also frequently describe the charms
of the beloved object with great minutencss.

FEMALE SINGERS CAwa" lirn, sing.'Almeh 0r'Alimeh; i. c.
'learned women') of a good class are now very rare, and those who
still exist perform only in the harems of wealthy natives. so that
the traveller will seldom or never have an opportunity of hearing
than Others of a low class are frequently seen in the streets aeconipaniod by one or two musicians, who are generally blind.

The FEMALE DANCERS, or caste of the CMatctsiCsing. Ghfiziych),
\\ hich is quite distinct from that of the'Awalim, were formerly one
of the chief curiosities of Egypt, but for some years past they have
horn prohibited from performing in the streets. Really good dancers
are said to he now rare, but on the Nile voyage the traveller will have

t Thctlt- njlluhlos represent the coughing caused by the great quantity
of gmnkr mlmlvtl by the hashish smoker at intervals of 1/4-1/2 hour, after
which he gradually becomes intoxicated and inscnsihlc.

ff The water-pipe out of which the hasllish is smoked has generally

n eucua-nut ('01 III Ir a receptacle for the water through which the smoke
pm on,












