351 Route J. THE PYRAMIDS L) F GJZEII.

Environs

proved to possess. llamilton, in [ 901, was a dispassionale and critical
observer. In 1817, Caviglia, a hold, but illiterate and fanciful Seaman, was
fortunate in In ting new facts regarding the interior of the Great Pyramid,
and excavated the Sphinx. In 1917, Belzoni (p. 359 ], an intelligent investigator and discoverer, thoroughly explored the interior ofthe Second Pyramid. The next eminent explorer was Sir Gardner Wilkinson in 1831. In
1837 and 1838 Col. Howard Vyse and Mr. l'erring made very thorough investigations and took careful measurements which will always be considcred authoritative. In 1842-45 Prof. Lepsius, the distinguished German
Egyptologist, who was president of the Prussian expedition, made several
very important discoveries, and furnished us with much valuable information. He found no fewer than thirty pyramids which had been quite
unknown to previous travellers. To ll. Mariette is chiefly due the merit
of having explored the hurial places of Sahlgiira (pp. 378, 388), which
yielded him a rich spoil.

Ascent of the Great Pyramid.

EXTERIOR. The traveller selects two of the ixuportunate lleduins by
whom he is assailed, and proceeds to the NE. corner of the Pyramid,
where the ascent begins. (Payment, see below. The selection of the
guides should properly be made by the shf-kh; but this is seldom done,
and even when it is. the traveller is still pestered by the others for
llalgshish.) These strong and active attendants assist the traveller to
mount by pushing, pulling, and supporting him, and will scarcely allow
him a moment's rest until the top is l" hell, As. however, the unwonted exertion is fatiguing, the traveller should insist on resting several
times on the way up. if so disposed. Ladies should have a suitable
dress for the purpose, and a stool may be brought to facilitate their
ascent by halving the height of the steps. The ascent. may he made in
10-15 min, but, in but weather especially. the traveller is recommended
to take nearly double that time. As the blocks are generally upwards
of an. in height. the traveller will find the assistance of the guides very
acceptable, though not indispensable. Persons inclined to giddiness may
find the descent a little trying. but the help of the lieduins removes all
danger. lloth in going and returning the traveller is importuned for lial5shish, but he should decline giving anything until the descent has been
safely accomplished. At the summit. of the Pyramid the patience is
again sorely tried by the onslaught of vendors oispueiutts antiquities and
dishonest money-changers. all pai-ley with whom should he avoided. Those
who make a prolonged stay on the top had better he provided with sum
shades and perhaps also with grey or blue spectacles.

INTERIOR. A visit to the interior of the Great Pyramid is interesting, but, though the guides represent it as easy and desirable, it will
be found fatiguing and far from pleasant. ant, The explorer has to crawl
and clamher through low and narrow passages, which, at places,
especially near the entrance, are not above 3v; ft. high and 4 ft. wide.
The stones on the floor are often extremely slippery, and the close air
smells strongly of hats-t. Travellers who are in the slightest degree
predisposed to apoplectie or fainting fits should not attempt to penetrate
into these stilling recesses.

For the ascent a single traveller usually takes two guides, hut three
suffice for two travellers. For a visit to the interior each traveller is
accompanied by one guide. The customary fee for the whole expedition
is 21/2 fr, for each traveller, whether he has been attended by (me. two.
or three guides. The lloduins are never contented with this sum, hut
the remuneration is ample. The traveller, however, if not dissatisfied.
may give an additional gratuity of 1-2 silver piastres to each of his I
guides. On no accountshonld any payment he made to any of them un
, The temperature of the interior is'RP Faint. i.e., as is usually the I
ease in subterranean chambers, the same as the mean temperature of the
outer air in the neighhourhuod.



