356 Route J. THE l'YliAllllDS OF GiZEll. Environs

may often be employed with advantage. We may again remind the
traveller that it is advisable to rest once or oftener on the way up,
in order to avoid the discomfort of arriving breathless and heated at
the summit. The space at the top at present measures about
12 sq. yds. in area, so that there is abundant room for a large
party of visitors.

The ": wa is remarkably interesting and striking. There is
perhaps no other prospect in the world in which life and death,
fertility and desolation, are seen in so close juxtaposition and in
such marked contrast To the W. cs. W. and NW.) extend yellowish
brown and glaring tracts of sand, interspersed with barren cliffs.
The huge and colourless monuments erected here by the hand of
man remind the spectator, like the desert itself, of death and
eternity. On a bare plateau of rock stand the other pyramids and
the Sphinx, rearing its head from the sand, like some monster suffocated by the dust. To the s., in the distance, rise the pyramids
of Abnsir, Sakhira. and Dahshfir, and to the N. those of Abu
Roash. The scene is deathlike, the colouring yellow and brown.
Towards the E., on the other hand, glitters the river, on each bank
of which stretches a tract of rich arable land, luxuriantly clothed
with blue-green vegetation, and varying in breadth. The fields are
intersected in every direction by canals. on the banks of which rise
stately palms, waving their flexible fan-like leaves, and interlacing
their shadows over the fellah villages perched like ant-hills on
embankments and mounds. In the direction of Cairo runs the long
straight carriage-road. Immediately before usrises the Citadel with
the striking minarets of the mosque of Mohammed'Ali, while the
blokattam hills, which form the chief mass of colour in the landscape, gleam in the morning with a pale golden tint, and in the
evening with a violet hue.

The descent of the Great Pyramid is more rapidly accomplished
than the ascent, but is hardly less fatiguing, and the traveller will
find the help of the Arabs not unacceptable.

1wrrauortfeomp. Plan, p. 34 Some of the chambers in the
interior of the Great Pyramid are at present closed; but, to prevent
confusion, we shall not mention these until we have described
those which are still shown. An interval of rest between the ascent
and the expedition into the interior is again recommended.

The Entrance (L) is on the thirteenth tier of stones, on the
N. side of the structure'i, and at a perpendicular height of 48 ft.
from the ground. The long passage a r, which is now only 3 ft. 4 in.
in height and 3 ft. 11 in. in width, descends in a straight direction
at an angle of 2 (P 41', and is altogether 1061/2 yds. in length We
follow this passage as far as the point at only, 20 yds. from the
entrance. A huge triangular trap-door of granite [ P ]. (1'), let into







' All'the pyramid » are entered from their N. sides. The stone
sarcophagi containing the bodies lay from N. to E.



