of Cairo. THE PYRAMIDS OF GIZEH. 4. Route. 357

the ceiling, and kept in its place by iron cramps, here arrests the
farther progress of the explorer. The hardness of the material of
which this barrier consists compelled the Arabian treasure-hunters
(p. 352) to avoid it, and to force a new passage CPI. d) through
the softer limestone. This is the roughest and most awkward spot
on the whole route. Beyond the rugged blocks at this point we
enter a passage CIN. eel, ascending at about the same angle, and
41 yds. in length, beyond which lies the GreatHall on. It). Before
entering the latter, we diverge at the point e, by the horizontal
passage ef. to the so-called Chamber of the Queens (P1. y). This
passage is at first 3 ft. 9 in. only in height, but at a distance of
61/2 yds. from the chamber the flooring sinks a little, so that the
height increases to 5ft. Sinches. The N. and S. sides of the chamber
are each 17 ft. in length, and the E. and W. sides 18 ft. 10 inches.
The height is 20 ft. iin., including the pointed roof, which consists
of enormous blocks of rock placed obliquely and leaning against
each other, and projecting beyond the sides of the walls to a
distance of 51/2 ft. into the surrounding masonry. We now
return to c and enter the Great Hall (Pl. o, the handsomest of the
comparatively small chambers in the interior of this colossal mass
of masonry. The jointing and polish of the fine-grained lilohaitam limestone form an unsurpassable marvel of skilful masonry.
As the visitor can now breathe and look about him with more
freedom, he may verify the accuracy of'Abdellatif's remark, that
neither a needle nor even a hair can be inserted into the joints of
the stones. The Great Hall is 28 it, high and 155 ft. long. The
lower part is 3 ft. 4 in. in width; and the upper part, beyond the
last of the panels of stone, each of which is 1 ft. 8 in. thick and
2 ft. high, is 7 ft. in width. The seven courses of stone composing
the roof, which seem to have been arranged in imitation of the
arch-principle, project slightly one above the other, serving to
strengthen and support the horizontal slabs which form the ceiling.
The parallel incisions in the pavement and on the walls were perhaps used to facilitate the introduction of the sarcophagus, and they
now serve to prevent the visitor from slipping. At the end of the
Great Hall is a small horizontal passage, 22 ft. long and 3 ft. Sin.
high, expanding about the middle into an Antechamber LPI. i),
which was once closed by four trap-doors of granite. The remains
of these slabs, in their pendent position, should be noticed. We
next enter the King's Chamber (pl. It), the most interesting of all.
The N. and S. sides are each 17 ft. in length, the E. and W. sides
341/2 ft., and the height is 19 ft.; the floor of the chamber is
1391/2 ft. above the plateau on which the Pyramid stands. The
chamber is entirely lined with granite, and is roofed with nine
enormous slabs of granite, each 181/2 ft. in length, the ends of
which rest on the lateral walls It now contains nothing but an
empty and mutilated sarcophagus of granite, bearing no trace ofan



