358 Route 4. THE PYRAMIDS OF GIZEH. Environs'

inscription, the lid 0t which had disappeared before the time of the
French ex edition. Length 7' 2 ft. width 3 ft. 3 in., height 3 ft.
p 7 t g

4 inches. The very massive sides ring with a clear tone when
struck. Curiously enough, the King's Chamber does not lie exactly
in a line with the diagonal of the Pyramid, but is 113 it. 4 in. to
the S. ofit. Owing to the prodigious weight of the superiucumbent
masses, it would have been extremely hazardous simply to roof the
chamber with long horizontal slabs, but the cautious architects of
Gheeps foresaw the danger and relieved the ceiling of the weight
by introducing five hollow chambers above it. The first four (I, m,
n, o) have flat ceilings, while the last (p) is roofed with blocks
leaning obliquely against each other. These chambers are accessible from the Great Hall (p. 357), but not without great difficulty.

The first chamber (l) is named'Davidson's chamber", after its discoverer (1763). The four others, discovered by Col. Vyse and Mr, Perring,
were named by them Wellfngton's (m), Nelson's (1:), Lady Arbuthnot's
(o), and Col. Campbell's (p) chambers. The discovery of the last of these
was particularly important. as the name of Khufu (p. 330) was found in
it. Lady Arbuthnot's Chamber contains the name of Khnum ['builder")
Khufu. These inscriptions are in red paint, and were doubtless placed
on the stunt: as distinguishing marks by the quarrymen, as some of them
are now upside down.

About 3 it. above the floor of the King's Chamber are the ends
of the Air Shafts (w, r) by which the chamber is ventilated, and
which were re-opened by Col. Vyse. They are aboutGin. in height
and S in. in width only, expanding by a few inches at the outer
extremities. The N. shaft is 9.34 it, and the S. shaft 174 ft. long.
We now retrace our steps, and, on emerging from these awe-inspiring recesses, hail the light and air with no little satisfaction.

Chambers not now accessible. The only other chambers in the interior
of the Great Pyramid as yet discovered are the following. The first
passage (1, b, r, leading downwards in a straight line, 293 ft. in length,
terminates in a horizontal corridor, 27 ft. in length, 3 ft. in height, and
2 n, in width, which leads to the subterranean chamber s, hewn in the
rock. The E. and w. sides of this chamber are each =16 ft. in length,
the N. and s. sides 27 ft., and the height 101/2 ft. It does not lie in a
line with the diagonal of the Pyramid, and its floor is 1011/2 ft. below
the level on which the Pyramid is built. The subterranean horizontal
passage t leads nowhere. The statement of Herodotus (p. 3314) that the
subterranean chamber planned by Cheops for the reception of his body
lay on a kind of island, surrounded by a canal which was conducted
hither from the Nile, is erroneous, as the chamber lies above the highest
level of the overflow of the river, and it has, moreover, been ascertained
that no channel from the river leads in this direction. From the lower
end of the Great Hall a shaft, discovered by Davidson in 1703, descends
to the lower passage, and is erroneously known as the "Veil". The enterprising Caviglia found that it terminated in the passage leading to the
subterranean chamber (r), and in 1551 Sir G. Wilkinson rightly explained that it must have been made to enable the workmen to quit the
Pyramid after the upper passages had been obstructed by blocks of stone.
It mu.t at all events have been constructed at a later period than the
masonry it5elf, as it has been obviously bored through it.

The Second Pyramid (which cannot be ascended, but should he
entered by scientific visitors), called by the Egyptians { 5% A 141',



