of Cairo. THE PYRAMIDS or GIZEH. J. Route. 359

the'great' or'considerable', was erected by Khafra, who was called
Chephren by the Greeks, and whose portrait-statue is preserved in
the museum at Billet ]; [ 1). 305), but his name has not been discovered on any part of the structure Owing to the greater height
of the rocky plateau on which it stands, it appears higher than its
larger neighbour. As the rocky site rises towards the W. and N.,
a considerable part of it required to be removed in order that a level
surface might be obtained. The levelled space surrounding the base
of the Pyramid was paved with blocks of limestone (see p. 369).
To the E. are remains of the temple erected for the worshippers
of the deceased Pharaoh, a structure of the kind which probably
adjoined all large pyramids (p. 368). The incrustation of the
Pyramid, which must have been preserved down to the middle of
the 17th cent, seems to have been laid on in a rough condition and
to have been polished afterwards, beginning from the top. The lower
courses were left in the rough, a circumstance which led the French
savants to suppose that the Pyramid was once surrounded by a
pedestal. The merit of having opened this Pyramid belongs almost
exclusively to Balsam, a most enterprising and successful explorer'r.
An inscription over the entrance records that the opening took
plane on March 2nd, 1818.

The Interior is entered by two passages on the N. side. The mouth of
one of these is in the level surface in front of the Pyramid, and was concealed by the pavement; that of the other is on the N. side of the Pyramid
itself, but formerly 49 ft. above the level of the ground. This
upper passage, which was lined with granite at the beginning, descends at
an angle 11 (23'55' to a depth of 105 ft.. leading first to a horizontal corridor, and thence to.'. which once contained the tomb
of the deceased, situated 3ft. min. try the of the diagonal of the

+ The traveller will meet with the name of G'iambattista Belzoni so
frequently, and in connection with discoveries of such importance, that
a brief notice of his remarkable career may not be unacceptable. He
was the son of a poor barber, and was born at Padua in 1778. lie was
brought up as a monk at home, where he was distinguished both for
mental and physical endowments, and devoted much of his time to drawing. When Rome was occupied by the French, he quilted that city and
went to England, and while in London eked out his livelihood by eating
as a model for figures of Hercules and Apollo. At the same time he
devoted considerable time to study, and especially to the science of
water-engineering. Accompanied by his high-spirited wife, he next went
to gym, where he arrived in 1815 and was at first obliged to support
himself by dancing in public. He at length attracted the attention of
Mohammed'Ali, who accorded him relief. His first undertaking of importance was the opening of the Pyramid of Chephren. He next discovered the tomb of mi 1. at Thebes (No. 17), the finest of all the royal
tombs; he opened the rock-temples of Abd Simbel, and re-discovered the
emerald mines of Tab; and the ruins of the ancient Here" e on the
Red Sea. He died in 1823 while on ajonrncy into the interior of Africa.
A giant in stature. he inspired the Arabs with such admiration that he
could prevail upon them to undertake the most unusual tasks. At the
same time he was an intelligent explorer, and a very able and accurate
draughtsman. His works, partly published by himself, and partly by his
widow, are still valuable.



