BMW. 21

an opportunity at Keneh, Lulgsor, and Esneh of seeing very curious
and elaborate, though to his taste often nngraceful performances.
Most of the dancers congregate at the fair of'fante Lp. 22O, but
the most skilful decline to exhibit unless paid with gold. The
Hamel, or men in female attire, who frequently dance at festivities
instead of the Ghawazi, present a most repulsive appearance.

The SNAKE CHARMERS (Rifd'Zyeh, sing. Rifa'i), who form another distinct caste, exhibit performances of a very marvellous
character, as credible European residents in Cairo have testified;
but the traveller will rarely come in contact with them. The ordinary
exhibition of dancing snakes may, however, occasionally be seen
in the Ezhekiyeht The boys who exhibit small snakes at the hotels
must of course not be confounded with the Rifa'iyeh.

The JUGGLERS (Ham) of Egypt are similar to those of other
countries. The performances of the BUFFOONS (Kurndfiti or Mahabbas0, which are chiefly intended for the amusement of the young,
are disgracefully indelicate.

(13). Baths.

The baths of Egypt. with their hot-air chambers, are those commonly known as Turkish, but they are neither so clean not so well
fitted up as some of those in the larger cities of Europe.

The Harare [ see Plan), as well as the Maghtas and Hunafiyeh,
have flat ceilings in which are openings covered with stained
glass. The maghtas and the llanafiyeh each contain marble basins
for washing, provided with taps for warm water; the maghtas
contain besides a bath sunk in the pavement Cold water is brought
in ewers. The lw'rc'zra, or general bath-chamber, is less heated than
the separate rooms, and is filled with steam. All the chambers
are paved with marble slabs and heated by dues under the pavement
and behind the walls.

When a cloth is hung up at the entrance to the baths, it indicates that women only are admitted. The baths are always cleanest
in the early morning. Fridays are to be avoided, as numerous Muslims
bathe early on that day, which is their Sabbath.

The visitor first enters a large vaulted chamber covered with a
cupola { hOsh et-rarnrruhr/ having a fountain of cold water in the
centre (fuslciyeh), and the bathing towels hung around on strings,
these last being swung into their places or taken down with bamboo
rods according to requirement. Having taken off his shoes and
given them to the attendant, the visitor is next conducted to one
of the raised divans which are still unoccupied, where he proceeds
to undress. Valuables may, if desired, be entrusted to the bath
owner. Wrapping a cloth round his loins, he leaves his divan, is
provided with pattens or wooden shoes (loablcab), and is conducted
to the hot room (harem) in the interior of the establishment. Near



