362 Route 4. Tnu senmx. Environs I

The three Small Pyramids situated to the S. of the Third Pyramid are uninteresting. The tomb--chamber of the one in the
centre also contains the name of Menkaura, painted on the ceiling

About 600 paces to the E. ofthe plateau of the Second Pyramid,
from amidst the sand of the desert, rises the a
Sphinx l which, next to the Pyramids themselves, is the most
famous monument in this vast burial-ground. It is hewn out of
the natural rock, and where this material has failed it has been
moulded into the shape of a recumbent lion with the head of a
man. The body was left in a rough form, but the head was originally most carefully executed. The entire height of the monument,
from the crown of the head to the pavement on which the fore-legs
of the lion rest, is said to be (see below), but the head, neck,
and a small part of the back are generally alone visible, the rest
being concealed by the constantly shifting sand. The ear, according
to Mariette, is 41/2 ft., the nose 5 ft. 7 in., and the month 7 ft.
7 in. in length; and the extreme breadth of the face is 13 ft.
8 inches. If the traveller stands on the upper part of the ear, he
cannot stretch his hand as far as the crown of the head, and the
space between these points must have been greater when the headdeeoration, which, as well as the greater part of the beard, is now
broken off, was still intact. There is a hollow in the head, into
which one of the Arabs may be desired to climb. The face was
deplorably mutilated at a comparatively recent period by a fanatic,
iconoclastic sliékh. and afterwards by the barbarous Mamelultes.
who used it as a target. It would appear from'Abdellatif's (p. 343
account that it was in perfect preservation in his time: "l'his
face is very pleasing, and is of a graceful and beautiful type; one
might almost say that it smiles winningly'. He also describes the
proportions of the head very minutely. An older writer, however.
states that the nose was mutilated in his time, and, as it is now
entirely destroyed, the face somewhat resembles the negro type,
though the mouth still has a smiling appearance. The stone formerly had a reddish tint which has now entirely disappeared. The
Arabs have given the Sphinx the name of'abn'l hol', i.c.'father
of terror', or formerly'belhit', probably derived from the Coptic
he'd--arr": (bei-hit), signifying a person who carries his heart or
his intelligence in his eyes, or'the watchful'. This last expression
has frequently been used, by authors who were ignorant of its antiquity, as an appropriate epithet for the Sphinx. The Arabs believed that the figure possessed the supernatural power of preventing the encroachment of the sand. The complete excavation of the
Sphinx was llrst undertaken by L1aviglia (p. 351'), at the cost
[ 7.31'10l.) of an English society. He discovered the [ light M' The Egyptian Sphinx (p. 167), being of lhe masculine gender, is
u. the head of a ram or of a man, and never with that
of a Woman.



