361 1101112 1. THE $ 11111". Environs

in the reck- temple adjoining the Sphinx (p. 365 ]. The monument
has even been supposed to be entitled to claim still higher
antiquity; for M. Mariette, while examining a ruined building
at the foot of the southernmost of the three pyramids which
rise to the E. of the Great Pyramid, found a stone built into
a wall, bearing an inscription which seemed to imply that the
Sphinx already existed in the time of Khufu, the builder of the
first pyramid. The inscription on the right side of the stone runs
literally thus: -'The living Horus, the King of Upper and Lower
Egypt, Khufu, the life-dispensing, found (hant) of the Pyramid in the
place (Le. in the immediate vicinity) of the Temple of the Sphinx'.

The Sphinx is written E k (m, which signifies'to

guard" or'watch', or'the watchman', an expression precisely equivalent to the Iel-hit' (p. 362) of a later period. The above inscription, however, is of later date than the time of Cheops. The
large tablet of Thothmes 111., found between the paws of the
Guardian of the Neeropolis, has been already mentioned. This
celebrated Pharaoh (p. 89 ] restored the Sphinx, and seems specially
to have revered it, as is indicated by numerous small monuments
which bear the figure of the Sphinx coupled with his name or his
portrait. In the inscription already referred to, the Sphinx is said
to speak to Thothmes'as a father to his son', and to address him in
the Words A'l am thy father 11arn1achis'. Though more or less
buried in sand at various periods, the Sphinx was highly admired
and revered down to so late a period as that of the Roman emperors,
as numerous inscriptions upon it, now concealed by the sand,
testify. Curiously enough, the Sphinx is mentioned neither by
Herodotus nor any later Greek traveller.

Significution of the Sphinx. The Greeks and humans call the Sphinx
Harmachis, or Armachis, which is equivalent to the ancient Egyptian
Harem-111111. Le. Horus on the horizon, or the sun in the act of visirvs
llnrmachis is the new-born light which conquers darkness. the soul which
overcomes death, or fertility which expels harrenness. Being the powerful antagonist of Typhon, he was victorious over evil in different
shapes. He achieved some of his most brilliant exploits in the form 0
the winged disk of the sun, and conquered his enemies in that of a lien
with a human head, 1.0. in the form of a sphinx. The scene of this
vietury was the Leuntopulitan Nome, the name of which is derived from
the myth 111 a papyrus preserved at Berlin the solar god is said Sumetimes to take the form of a lion, and other slurpes t srcllarr his,
in the burial-places, promises resurrection to the dead. Turned directly
towards the 19.. his face first reflects the brilliance of the rising sun,
and he illumines the world after the darkness of night. Itarmnchis,
"linrr 1111 the outskirts of the desert, (Wen. mes sterility and prevents
the sand from overwhelming the fields. This last attribute was still
at a late period to the thinx- Harmachis, who
is called hy Greek inscriptions Agatho0arnum, or the good spirit'. The
morning was considered sacred to Dermatitis, and it is in the E.that
110 first shows himself to the "nu-1.11 The East helnnged to him; and as
Thothmes llI. curried his away further to the E. than any of his prede


