of Cairo. GRANITE TEMPLE. J. Route. 365

cessors, it was not unnatural that he should have showed special veneration for the Sphinx-Harmachis, and chosen him for his tutelary god.
Every Pharaoh was, as we are aware, regarded as an earthly incarnation
of Ra. and also, as many monuments testify, of Ra Harmachis. The kings.
therefore. afterwards chose the Sphinx to symbolise the divine nature of
their mission as monarchs. and it was a favourite practice to crown the lion's
body with a head bearing their own features. The Sphinx representing
a king is called neb, or'lord'. The Assyrians provided their sphinxes with
Wings as symbols of speed and of the power of rising above earthly things.

About 3/4 hr. in a due S. direction from the Sphinx, on the outskirts
of the desert, is a spot known to the Bednins where numerous fossils
occur in the meiocene sand-formation. Among the commonest are the
curious sea-urehinstClypeaster), which the Bednins frequently offer for sale.
- In the desert. about t hnk farther distant. petrified wood is said to
occur (comp. p. 339).

A few paces to the SE. of the Sphinx is situated the *Granite
Temple, a large building constructed of granite and alabaster, discovered by M. Mariette in 1853. The different chambers are now
kept free of sand, so that they can be examined in every part. The
object of the building has not yet been ascertained, but there can
be no doubt that it was in some way connected with the Sphinx.
The inscription of KhuN mentioned at p. 364 speaks of a Temple
of the Sphinx. The statues of Chephren (pp. 300, 307 ] found here
seem to indicate that he was the founder of this structure; and, if
so, this would be the only temple handed down to us from the prim
2cva1 monarchy. At the same time the building so closely resembles
a mastaba (p. 379), that, particularly as it stands in the Necropolis
of Memphis, it was perhaps rather one of those monuments which
were dedicated to the rites of the dead; and it seems not improbable that Chephren, who built the Second Pyramid as his tomb,
erected this edifice as a place of assembly for the worshippers,
of his manes. The building is a fine example of the simple
and majestic architecture of that remote period, when the art of
working the hardest kinds of stone had already attained perfection.
The chisel which in the hand of the stone-mason shaped these
blocks of granite with such exquisite skill, could doubtless, when
wielded by the sculptor, easily create a statue of Chephren.

Descending by a recently constructed Passage CPI. no ] in steps,
protected by walls against the encroachment of the sand, we pass
through a door (b) into a Passage (MI) descending towards the E.,
6ft. Sin. in width and TO ft. in length. On the right, halfway
down this passage, is the entrance to a Chamber (d) constructed
entirely of blocks of alabaster; opposite to it. on the left, is the
Entrance (d) to a flight of steps, which turns at a right angle and
ascends to a small chamber, where an opening on the S. side leads
to the granite roof of the temple. This passage and chamber are
also constructed of alabaster. At the E. end of the corridor we enter
a Hall (Pl. 5), 79 it. in length LN. to S.) and 23 ft. in width, embellished with six monolithic pillars of granite varying from 3 it,
bin. to 4 ft. 7 in. in thickness. The pillars are connected by enor


