of Cairo. TOMB 011 NUMBE :5. 1.1101111; 367

his wife Ilcmckm Tlue representations and hieroglyphic: it contains are either partly or entirely obliterated. Khafra--ankh was a
'semer' or companion, Mill :1'saten rekh', or blood-relation of the
king, to whom his wife, a priestess of Neith, was also related. lie
is extolled as the illustrious priest of the Pyramid of Khafra,

surnamed'the great. On the E. wall of the principal chamber we
see writers engaged in recording the number of cattle of each kind
possessed by the deceased. The representatives of the different
flocks placed beside the numbers are admirably executed, and
faithful to nature even in their attitudes. The sign I is equivalent
to l, n to 10, and e to 100, these symbols being repeated so as to
represent the hundreds tens and units of which the various flocks

consisted. Thus Sgggnflnw coupled with the figure ofa bull, indicates that lihafra-ankh possessed 835 bulls, and in a similar manner we are informed that he had 220 cattle without horns, 760 asses,
'2'235 goats of the antelope kind, and 974 goats. Besides these animals we also distinguish the more or less obliterated representations
of a voyage on the river, the measurement of corn, the felling of
trees, cm, and on the S. wall we find a portrait of the deceased
and his wife, both in a sitting posture, with tables covered with
offerings before them.

*Camphell's Tomb, which may be visited on the way back from
the Sphinx to the Great Pyramid, is larger than most of the others
mentioned below. It is of comparatively late origin, dating, as the
inscriptions record, from the 7th cent. and the 26th Dynasty. The
upper part has been entirely destroyed, and the deep and wide
shaft, at the bottom of which is a. tomb-chamber vaulted with an
arch having a span of 11 ft., is now uncovered. The tomb was discovered in the course of excavations made by Col. Vyse in 1837, and
named by him after 001. Campbell, the British consul-general of
Egypt at that period. The shaft is 301/2 ft. wide from E. to W.,
26 ft. from N. to S., and 533/4 ft. in depth. The sarcophagi found
here were in niches, and not in the vaulted chamber. One of these,
new in the British Museum, is composed of red granite, and prismatic in form, and bears numerous inscriptions. The arched lid
bears the portrait of a bearded mummy at its upper end, andaprofusion of funereal scenes and inscriptions in the style of the
25th Dynasty. Two sarcophagi in basalt and another in whitish
quartzose stone were also found here. From all of these the bodies
had been removed. The vaulted chapel had also been forcibly
entered on the W. side, but the passage is now closed.

*Circuit of the Pyramid Plateau of Gizeh (comp. p. 343).
After having inspected the Great Pyramid externally and internally
(p. Mi), we turn (following the dotted line on the Map, p. 354)
to the left (W. l of the entrance, descend the mound of debris and
proceed to the N.W, angle of the Pyramid, where its foundation







