368 Route J. THE rrnanms or GIZEH. Environs l

stone ['1' ]. b) has been exposed to view. Towards the W. and S.W.
lie numerous tombs (mastabas, p. 379), but they present no attraction, being almost all in very bad preservation and more than half
buried in the sand.

We may, however, notice two of these mastabas, situated not far
from the above mentioned foundation-stone, but now covered with sand.
In one of these, built by a certain Senet' em-ah, were found several
carefully executed scenes, including a representation of the deceased in
a litter, borne by thirteen servants, and followed by two large dogs.
The other tomb belonged to another Senet' em-ab (tie.'good' or "perfect
name'), surnamed'Meha', who seems to have been one of the most
distinguished dignitaries of his time, and was married to Khent-hau~s, a
king's daughter. He was a priest of high rank, treasurer, and superintendent of the corn » magazines, which last office, recalling the history of Joseph, was instituted at a very early period. He was at the same time a
minister of war, or literally'president of the double house of war'.

Opposite the N.W. angle of the Second Pyramid, and also new filled
with sand, are the tombs of three other Egyptian magnates of the 5th Dynasty, containing a genealogical record of a family which enjoyed the
distinction of being'suten rekh' (p. 367), or related to the king, for four
generations. As the kings themselves are also mentioned here, these
tombs have materially facilitated the compilation of an accurate list of
the members of the 5th Dynasty. The ancestor of this family. Shepseskaf-ankh, lived in the reign of the Pharaoh Shepseskaf. His eldest
son Aimeri served under Nefer-ar-ka-ra; and Ptah-bau-nefer, the son of
Aimeri, was a priest of Ra-en-user, and is also styled a prophet of
Khufn, i.e. of the manes of the builder of the First Pyramid. Two jambs
from this mastaba, and the architrave belonging to them, are now in the
museum at Berlin. The eldest son of Ptah-bau-nefer was called Ptah,
nefer-sam. To the some family belonged Ata, who also served under
ia-en-user, apparently in the capacity of a director of music, as he styles
himself'president of song, who delights the heart of his lord by his
beautiful song in the inner chambers Ckhennrr) of the lofty gate'. The
Egyptian word'peraa' which neem in this inscription is the root of the
word Pharaoh used in the Bible.

The largest and best preserved at these tombs lie to the N.W.
of the Second Pyramid (see dotted line in Plan, p. 354), near the
point e. A handsome gateway and a well-preserved hieroglyphic
inscription are still to be seen here To the N. of this point are
also several rows of tombs now filled up.

We now shirt the W. side of the vast necropolis, and reach the
N.W. angle of the rocky enclosure of the court of the Second Pyramid. A natural cleft in the rock here facilitates our descent from
the top of the rock, which is 16 ft. in height. At the foot of it we
reach the plateau which was hewn in the rock in order to prepare
a level surface for this pyramid (p. 359). Part of the surface on
the N. side is divided by means of deep incisions and transverse
furrows into six rows of squares, the object of which is unknown.
0" the rock above is inscribed the name of Ramses II. in hieroglyphics. () n the ll. side of the Second Pyramid are remains of the
temple once connected with it (p. 359). We follow the W. side of
the Pyramid. On the rock to the right is a hieroglyphic inscription
(1'1. f; the name ol'an architect, and uninteresting), near which
are several rook-tombs. One of these tombs [ P ]. g ], nearly opposite
the S.W. angle of the Pyramid, has a *Ceiling hewn in the rock in














