of Cairo. THE PYRAMIDS or Giznn. J. Route. 369

imitation of palm-stems. (Visitors should beware of falling into
the tomb-shaft.) 7

In passing the W. side of the Pyramid the visitor has an opportunity of observing, that, although several triangular blocks of granite are strewn around, which perhaps once formed the lower
portion of the external incrustation of the Pyramid, the upper
quarter of the Pyramid is covered with a hard kind of conglomerate composed of limestone, broken bricks, and plaster.

Our route now leads towards the SAY. to the Third Pyramid
(p. 360 ], once entirely covered with huge blocks of granite, the
lower courses of which are still in tolerable preservation. We walk
round the Pyramid on the W. and S. sides, near the latter of which
stand three smaller pyramids (p. 362), then leave thetemple (p. 360)
belonging to the Third Pyramid on the left, and descend by a good
path towards the E.

We observe here on the left another series of rock-tombs dating from
the rltb and 5th Dynasties. Among these is that of Tebehen (131.12), containing along list of offerings with representations of person: dancing
with raised arms and feet before the altar. In a small hollow a little
further to the N. is a tomb embellished with four columns [ P ]. i), the
well-preserved inscriptions of which contain the name of Psametik. Another tomb belonged to a priest, a relative of the Khafra'Who had to
honour the Pyramid Yet Cthe great") of King Khafra'.

In the valley before us, to the right, rises a projecting ridge of
rock containing tombs of no interest. Adjoining this rock, on the
left, are two sycamores and a date-palm, rising above an Arabian
burial-place. Still farther to the E. we observe the remains of the
stone dam leading from the plain of the Nile to the Third Pyramid
(1). 34-1 ]. To the left of the trees rises a kind of truncated Tower,
constructed partly of the natural rock and partly of masonry, and
supposed to have been a tomb. Passing through it, we come to other
tombs on the left, also covered with sand. One of these was that
of Urkhuu (PL k), who seems to have been a kind of minister of
public instruction in the reign of Nefer-ar-ka-ra, as he bore the
titles off'the royal and learned writer of the lofty gate, the
learned president of the art of writing, who brings light into the
writings of the double house of the tomb'. We next reach the
Sphinx (p. 362), 150 paces to the 5.13. of which is the entrance
to the Granite Temple (p. 305) On the S. horizon, at a distance
of 61/4 M, rise the pyramids of Abusir (b. 3701 and the steppyramid of Sakhara (: p. 382).

In order to complete our circuit of the plateau of the Pyramids,
we proceed from the Sphinx towards the W. to'Campbell's Tomb'
(p. 307), ascend thence to the Great Pyramid, and pass three
uninteresting small pyramids on the right. (That in the centre,
according to Herodotus, was the tomb of a daughter of Cheops;
that to the 8.. according to an inscription preserved in the Museum
of BOil.c, belonged to Hentsen, another daughter of the same
king.) We shirt the E. side of the Great Pyramid to the left, where
BAEDEKER'S Egypt I. 2nd Ed. 911






