A A
370 Route 4. ABU ROASH. Environs

there are two long'mortar-pits' (Pl. m), and soon regain the
Kiosque of' the Khedive (p. 342), from which we started. The socalled Tomb of Numbers tp. 366 ] is on the B. side of the plateau,
a little above the mud-huts of the Bednins.

The Prnsmns OI" Ani) Roisn, the northernmost group in the Necropulis of Memphis, present little attraction. and are not worth visiting.
Standing in front of the viceroyal kiosque on the plateau of the Great
Pyramid of Urizch. we perceive towards the N. an abrupt ridge of rock
descending to a branch of the Nile. and to the right, at its base. two
villages shaded by palm trees. The nearer of these is Key-dam. the inhabitants of which are occupied in cutting Hints for the primitive guns
still used in Egypt. The large quantities of splinters seen here suggest
to us that the so~called'llint tools' (p. 485) found in other parts of Egypt
may possibly be merely the refuse from similar workshops. Immediately
heyond Kerdfisa is Abii Roésh, which may he reached in 1% -2, hrs. by a
route skirting the desert. On the margin of the plateau close to Abd
Knish en the N.W. side. rise the shapeless remains of a Pyramid of Nile
Mug, which is constructed round a nucleus of massive stone. On a ridge
of rock descending precipitously to the margin of the desert, and reached
by a path ascending a hollow, near the white tomb of it shekh, and
1/4 hr. before the Mud Pyramid is reached. are situated the remains of
two pyramids. One of these now consists of four or five courses of stone
only. and (according to Col. Vyse) contains a chamber reached from the
N. side by a passage inclined at an angle of 22°, and 53 yds. in length.
Each side measures 124 yds. The other pyramid, to the W. of the
last. is new a mere heap of ruins. A stone dyke, about 600 yds. in
length, leads from the N. to the hill on which these two pyramids stand.
Numerous fragments of granite strewn about here indicate that this ma.erial has been used either for the construction of the tomb-chambers or
for the external incrustation of the pyramid. No inscriptions were found
here. Distinct traces of a necropolis now entirely destroyed are observable near these two pyramids. and also on the plateau ascending to the
W. from the Mud Pyramid. The pyramids of Abil Ro'iish seem to belong
to one of the first dynasties, but nothing certain is known about them.

FROM GEZEH TO ABUsiR AND Songhai (p. 371) is a ride of about
23/1 brs., skirting the margin of the desert. To the left lie patches of
cultivated land and a number of ponds, containing more or less water in
accordance with the height of the last inundation. bordered with vegetation, and frequented by numerous birds; beyond which flows the Bohr
Ydsuf arm of the Nile (p. 456). After 1 hr. we observe the remains of
two pyramids on the right. The first of these (N.), near the village of
fftitoyet el-rAryda, must once have been an important monument, as the
sides are still nearly 100 yds. in length. The second (5.). near the hovels
of Riga, is now a more heap of debris. In one hour more, passing the
village of 8hobevment, we reach the Pyramids of Abuslr (comp. Map,
p. 376 ]. the ancient Bush'is ['2 hrs. to the 5.8.15. of the Pyramids of Gizeh.
and 3/4 hr. to the N.N.E. of Saiglgilra), situated on a rocky eminence covered with sand. The masonry of these monuments, having originally
been constructed with no great care. is now much damaged, and their
bases are covered with sand, so that a visit to them is uninteresting.
The were erected by kings of the 5th Dynasty. The entrances are on
the N. sides. and. as in all the other pyramids. there is a passage, at first
slanting and afterwards horizontal, leading to the chamber in the centre.
The northernmost of the three largest pyramids (once fourteen in number),
lying close together. belonged to a certain Sahara, and was styled that
of the'glorious emerging' (tie. of the deceased into another world). At
a very curly period divine honours were accorded to this Pharaoh, and
Aarritices were otl'ercd to his manes so late as the time of the Ptolemies.
The pyramid was enclosed by a wall, to which it still traceable path ascended from a building (probably a temple) situated in the plain. Its
perpendicular height was 1631/2 t't. (now 118 ft), its sides WON 955% ft.



