afoaim, Autism 4. Route. 371

(now 2171/1 m in length, and they were inclined at an angle of5lo 42' 35".
With regard to the central one of these pyramids, that to the S. of the
last, the inscriptions state that'the dwelling of Iiaeenrusel- stands fast'.
Ti (p. 388) and other priests, whose mastahas were found at Salildira,
presided over the rites connected with this pyramid. According to very ancient inscriptions, a peculiar kind of monument (an obelisk standing on a
truncated pyramid), dedicated to the sun, and bearing the name of Rashepnab, is said once to have stood near the pyramid of Ra-en-user, The
name of the largest pyramid (sides 108, formerly 1901/2 yds. l perpendicular
height 105, formerly 229 rtt, situated a little to the e, is unknown.
Herring (p. 3341 found that all the chambers had been entered and plundered. The other pyramids are mere heaps of ruins, and one of them (to
the sew. of the largest) seems never to have been completed.

Continuing our route to Salglgdra, we leave to the left a pond and
the village or Amen; situated beyond a group of palms to the SE. and
soon reach the sandy eminences of the Necropolis of Memphis, at the beginning of which the tomb of Ti is situated.

The Site of Ancient Memphis and the Necropolis of Sahhara.

A visit to Memphis and Salglgara may easily be accomplished in one
day by the aid of the railway. hut 11/272 days may profitably be devoted
to the excursion. There are, indeed, but few of the tombs in the Necropolis of Salghara which are accessible to the ordinary visitor. but the
interiors of these are so interesting, that many travellers will find them
worthy of careful and repeated inspection. A tent is not absolutely necessary for the expedition. The traveller may pass the night at Mariette's house (p. 377), or on its covered terrace. or, if necessary. in one of the
numerous caverns in the neighbouring rocks. A blanket is a sufficient
covering in spring. Provisions should not be forgotten, and liquors me
if necessary, be procured at Bedrashén at the shop of a Greek'bal.cl.ciil'
(on the right, beyond the bridge).

RAILWAY (Ligne de tu Ilattta- gypzeh The station of lmtntzc edrllukrm'
is situated on the left bank of the File 3 M. from Cairo, a drive of
1/2 hr (5 fr.). The train, starting daily at 8.30 a. m., runs thence to Bedrashén (see below) in 1/2 hr. (three 10 pias.; me for luncheon
and a visit to the tenths l hrs. should be allowed. and for returning to
the station of Bedrashén 2 hrs. more. The train from Upper Egypt generlaly reaches BedrashEn about 6. 30 p.m., so that the traveller should leave
Sakkara a little after 4 o'clock. The hotel at Cairo will thus he regained
about 8 p.m. It is desirable to arrive in good time both at Bfilak and
Bedrashén, as the train, though generally late, occasionally starts before
its time.

Those who wish to spend a night at Sahhfira may return from Bedrashen to Cairn either on the second evening (as above), or at 10.45 ann.
by the special train from the Fayfim (see p. Item; or the traveller may
start at 3 pint from Pi1liil.s ed Uakmir fur Bedrashén by the Faytim train,
ride in the evening to Sulf' ha, and thus have the whole of the next day
at his disposal. It should, however, he remarked that the trains to and
from the Fayfim start from Blilalg ed-Dakrfir at the time when the Nile
bridge at Gezireh is open for the passage of vessels (during 2 1mm.
Crossing the river in a small boat is not recommended, owing to the
great confusion which prevails. - Donkeys with good saddles may now
be Obtained in Bedrashén, so that it is no longer necessary to bring them
from Cairo.. A

On leaving the station we observe the Pyramids of Gizeh

(p. 343 ] on the right, in such a position, that the Pyramid of

Gheops conceals the other two. The view to the left is atrlirst hid
den by the lofty walls of the large estate at Gizeh U). 341), which

24*






