'r.-" .\'.
fume ly belonged to the lxheli1e but is now sate
the 4. er 1 ot' to the'1 hr tLe left. beyond the Nile. 0n the banks ef the \ile are the lure military establish"
ments of Tum. To the right rise the hills of the Libyan desert'
With the P: ir Lp, 3701. We next observe the step-.
pyramid. Which. however. soon disappears behind a grove of palate.
On the ti: ht and left of the line are tracts of arable land.

The L11 IC) station of Be in hla cre to the left of the line, sad
next ""I Yer. am: Jewish burial-ground.
We ride across the railway, t: irts'Cn. scantily shaded by palm-tree. lieyonvl tl-e brilge La Greek'bakkal on the right. - p. t .11 we turn
to the'. leaving the xil'age en the right. and ride on the
embankment to the W. towards a conspicuous pain-grove. Immediately heye'td the last houses of Bedrashen we observe to the right,
at a distance ot" l t IL, On each side of the tuntwtkment lie greet 1 fields 111 s'\: in; and summer and large eXpansee of
"ate r in autumn and the first half of winter. The embankment
ends near the first trees of the palm-groves, 20 min. from the
station.

There are For) different routes hence to My ra. used at different seasons. One of these Uhe 1cururuer-ruuri) leads due W.
past the colossal tignre of Rams es IL. and. leaving the village of
Mir Ind. en the r pill. to the village of > akk:'1ra. but it is not.
practicable at the season of inundation. The other mute toiuterroad') diverges from the embankment to the right, traverse: thug
"hole length of the palm-grove, leaves the village of Slitrahiueh
a long "ay to the left, and reaches another embankment farther oer:

The ittsig.nitieattt sandyexpanse hefeteus, ant
> ttewn "ith blocks of granite. broken potter
brick. is the ancient Site of Memphis. "hich is now intetmi
in alt historical point "tie" oat _ We observe from the characteristics tfthe r tins. that the ancient Egyptians built their edithW,
with the exception of palaces and temple. of large srtamtried trrtett
of hilehmnd. Were it not for the vast 3eeropolis to the W. of the
ancient city. no one uonld imagine that one of the meat fame"
and populous capitals of antiquity had once stood here. It is I
now possible to form any precise idea of the situation of the c'
and as i _, mes were carried off in former centuries to build a
fi'es. tn the right bank of the bile [ seep p. 37-1) the relics but
here l .11 e teen Very scanty. The narrow streets. "hie--h aresaid 111 hate lieu half--a--day's journey in length down to






