' of Cairo. MEMPHIS. 4. Route. 373

12th cent, extended between the Nile and the Bahr Yhsuf, to the
N. as far as Gizeh, and to the S. about as far as the latitude of the
Pyramids of Dahshur. The most important quarters of the city and
many of its public buildings appear to have stood in the fields of
the villages of Bedrashéu, Mitrahiueh and Iiasriyeh.

Menes (p. 85)'the enduring,'the eternal', who is placed by the
Egyptians at the head of all their dynasties (having been immediately
preceded by the dynasty of the gods), and is described as a man of
This [ near Abydos in Central Egypt, the district which Diodorus
calls the oldest part of Egypt), is said to have been the founder of
the Empire, and the builder of Memphis. Herodotus states that he
was told by the Egyptian priests, that Menes had constructed an
embankment across the Nile about 100 stadia above Memphis, and
thus compelled the river, which had formerly flowed past the Libyan chain, to quit its old channel, and to run between the two
ranges of hills. When the land thus reclaimed had become sufficiently firm, he built upon it the city of Memphis, situated in the
narrow part of Egypt. To the N. and the W. of the city, as they
informed him, Memes caused a lake to be excavated for its defence,
and to be filled from the river, which protected the town on the E.
side; while within the city be erected the great and memorable
Temple of Pink. The whole history of the city is associated with
this vast sanctuary, which included withinits precincts the temples
of other gods, was surrounded by a wall, and must have commanded
the city like a huge castle.

Memphis, like all the Egyptian towns, was known by several different names. In the first place, like the home around it, it was called
the'city of the white wall'. after the castle, which was well known even
in the Greek period. Another name, derived from the deity most highly
revered by the citizens, was Ila l'mh (house of Ptah'), which the Greeks
IrrmslMerl Hephaistopolis Lastly it was known by the popular name of
Jferrue.fee, i.e.'gond place', or'haven of the good'. The r at the end of
Men Defer _ then dropped, and thus arose the Coptic form Allcnfi nr
illemfi, which the Greeks and Romans changed to Memphis, and the Arabs
to Men/1 The quarter where the licentious rites of the Egyptian and
Phoenician goddess of love were celebrated, and where strangers were
afterwards allowed to settle. was called Ta-makh, it'the world of life'.

Menes was succeeded by his sonAtahuti, or Athothis, whoruade
Mcmphishis capital, and is saidtohavc built the royal palace. During his reign and that of his successors of the primeval monarchy,
Memphis attained its greatest prosperity. Each ofthe Pharaohs extended and embellished the temple. Memphis suffered severely
from the invasion and during the domination of the Hyksos
(2194-1683). The Pharaohs of the new empire who expelled the
intruders (p. 89) resided at Thebes, the city of Ammon, but by
no means forgot their ancient capital, the city of Plah and Apis.
During the 21st Dynasty the seat of government was transferred to
Sal's (p. 445), the proximity of which featured to Memphis a share
of its ancient glory, though but for a short period. The city was
besieged and captured several times by the Assyrians, and also by






