374 Route J. M mm I 1 s. Environs

the Ethiopian Piankhi who offered great sacrifices to Ptah in the
'Gity of the White Wall'. Cambyses, the first monarch of the Persian dynasty, took the city by storm after his victory at Pelusium
Ji'.'325) over Psamrnetikh III. (the last king of the 26th l) yn.);
and two centuries later it was entirely eclipsed by the foundation of
Alexandria (po. 332), although it still retained some importance
during the Roman period (13.0. 30). In consequence of the edict
of Theodosius CA.D, 370-305; comp. p. 100) the temples and statues were destroyed, and under the later Byzantine monarchs the
heretical Monophysites (p. 101) seem to have been very numerous
here. Makaukas, the leader of the Copts, was established at Mens
phis while negotiating with'Amr Ibn ol-Ni, the general of'Omar.
The Mohammedan conquerors transferred their residence to the
right bank of the Nile (comp. p. 341 ], opposite the northernmost
part of Memphis, using the well-berm blocks, which had once
composed the venerable palaces and temples of the ancient city of
Mates, for the construction of their palaces, castles, and mosques.
Memphis, however, was so vast, that it was long before its plunderers succeeded in entirely destroying it. Down to a late period
its ruins excited the admiration of all visitors. Thus'Abdallatif
(at the end of the 12th cent), after a lively account of numerous
attacks sustained by the enormous city, assures us that even in his
time, the ruins contained a profusion of wonders which bewildered
the mind and baffled description. "The more profoundly we contemplate the ruins (he says), the greater does the admiration become with which they inspire us; and every new survey we
take becomes a source of fresh delight.' 0n beholdng the ruins
he cannot help regarding as pardonable the popular belief, that the
ancient Egyptians were giants of prodigious longevity, who had
the power ofmovingmasses of rock with a magician's wand. "After
the time of'Abdellatif the rapidly dwindling ruins of Memphis are
rarely mentioned. one after stone was transferred as from a
quarry to the opposite bank of the Nile, and we are told that the
site was systematically explored by treasure--seekers, who took
many centuries to exhaust its precious relics.

The "Colossal Statue of Ramses IL lies in a hollow, having
unfortunately fallen with its face to the ground. The head is turned towards the DIW. This huge statue was discovered by Messrs.
Cavigliu and Sloane (p. Mi ] in 1820, and presented to the British
Museum, but owing to the difficulty of transport it has never
been removed. It consists of remarkably hard and fine-grained
limestone, and before it was injured was about 42 ft. in height.
The workmanship is admirable. The features, which resemble
the Semitic type, are exactly similar to those of this great monarch (the Sesostris of the Greeks) as portrayal on numerous
other monuments, particularly at Thebes. He wears the royal








