of Cairo. MEMPHIS. J. Route. 375

head-dress (pshent) with the Uracus snake, whichis crowned with a
cylinder sloping slightly outwards, and resembling the modius in
the head of Serapis. An artificial beard is attached to the chin.
On his breast the king wears a shield terminating in a groove at the
top (perhaps a kind of pouch, such as were worn by the Jewish priests
and those of Serapis), in the centre of which is inscribed his pronomen Ra-user--ma setep en Ra, i.e.'god of the sun, mighty in the
truth, approved by the sun', while the god Ptah (y. 12 (0, and the
lion-headed Sekhet (Bast) stand by as bearers; the girdle, in
which a dagger is worn, bears both the prenomen and the surname
of Ramses, the favourite of Ammon, which is also inscribed on the
front of the scroll or staff which he holds in his left hand. On
the back of the support of the left leg, which is in the attitude of
stepping forward, are two vertical rows of hieroglyphics, the lower
parts of which are broken off: - 1st Line:'the princess and
great...'; 2nd Line:'the king's (daughter), the great...'
These fragments of inscriptions show that the figure of a daughter
of the king was placed at his feet. The figure of a son is still
distinctly recognisable, the arm being raised in an attitude of
prayer, and the hand touching the knee of the statue. - There
can be no doubt that this statue, the face of which, when erect,
was turned towards the N., is one of those erected by Ramses H.
in front of the temple ofPtah (p. 373) at Memphis. In the time
of Strabo it perhaps stood alone in the anterior court, which was
used for bull-fights.'A colossal statue of a single stone', he observes,'stands in the entrance court before the temple of Ptah.
Bull-fights were exhibited here, for which express purpose some
persons keep bulls, as horse-trainers rear horses'. According to
Herodotus two of these statues were 30 cubits in height, which, as
the Greek cubit was only about 13/9 ft. in length, nearly corresponds
to the 42 ft. which the statue actually measures. Both Herodotus and Diodorus state that Sesostris (Ramses 11.), on his return from a great and victorious campaign, was invited at Pelusium
on the Egyptian frontier, with his wife and children, to a banquet
at the house of his brother. The latter, desiring to assassinate
Ramses, caused his tent to be surrounded with dry reeds after
the banquet. and to be set on fire. The intoxicated servants rendered inefficient aid, and the king's wife and children were in the
utmost danger. The king. thereupon, raised his hands in prayer,
dashed into the flames, and rescued them. Out of gratitude he
then erected this statue, at the foot of which the figures ofa prince
and princess were placed. Accessory figures of a similar kind,
however, are frequently found with other statues to which no such
story attaches.

Close to the statue, on the left, in front of a felle'th-hut, are
remains of a statue, including a colossal foot, which, however, being
of sandstone, probably did not belong to the statue of Ramses, which






