376 Route J. M mum »: Environs I

is composed of limestone. 111 a number ofhollows, to the right of the
colossal statue, we observe remains of foundations, the most important of which are 5 min. to the N.W., beyond the projecting
angle of the palm-grove, and due E. from the village of Nitrahineh.
N. Mariette supposed these to be the foundation of a temple of Ptah
(Vulcan). During the inundation the whole of the low ground is
under water, and then resembles a lake surrounded by palm-groves.

In 1951-54 llckekyan Bey, an Armenian, was employed by the London Geological Society to make excavations here; and having sunk shafts
at 96 different places, he found bones of domestic animals, fragments of
pottery and bricks, and various implements' a copper knife). at different depths. Near the colossal statue. beneath strata of Nile-mud,
which had not been covered with sand from the desert, was discovered
a fragment of red terracotta, at a depth of 39 it. It therefore appears,
that since the erection of the statue of Ramses. about the middle of the
11th cent. B. C l the deposit of Nile- mud around it has attained a thickness of nearly to { t.. without reckoning a layer of sand Sin in thickness.
The alluvial deposits at this spot must thus have increased at the rate
of 33/1in. in each century from the middle of the 111th cent. 1: .C. down to
the present time. If the thickness of the deposit above the terracotta
fragment increased at the same rate, it would follow that the earthenware
vessels were manufactured on the banks of the Nile 11,646 years before
Christ. It need hardly be said. however, that this mode of computation
is very untrustworthy. And yet'who would venture to deny that this
fragment of prttery, buried at a depth of 39 ft., may be at least 4000 years
older than the monument of the great llamses'? (Peschel.)

From Mitruhinch (Memphis) to Sa.kl.c (ira. [ 1) Spring Route.
We ride towards the W. from the statue of Ramses, leaning the
village of Mitrahineh at a little distance to the right (see Maps,
pp. 372, 37 8). On quitting the palm-grove we obtain an interesting view; immediately to the right, shaded by palm- trees and lebbelts, is a small villa belonging to Tigran Bey, a nephew of Nubar
Pasha. About 1 M. to the W. is another long palm-grove surrounding Sahkara and bordering the desert; beyond this, on the yellow
sand of the desert, rise eleven pyramids. The first of these, to
the left, is the outer mud-pyramid, beyond which are the
blunted pyramid, the first mud-pyramid, and the great pyramid,
all belonging to the group of Dahshtlr (p.402). Not far from these
we next perceive the Mastaba Far'nn, with the pyramid ofPepi ll;
then, exactly above the how b' of Saliliiira, two pyramids, the lesser
Olelitil is that of l'epil., and lastly, to the right, the pyramid of
Unas, the great step--pyramid and two smaller ones tto the right, that
of To ta). These last eight pyramids belong to the group of fiahltara.
- Having nearly reached (3/4 hr. from the statue of Ramses) Salihara, we leave the village which is uninteresting, to the left,
turn towards the N., and shirt the palm-groves. (At the end of
these, on the left, is a beautiful, shady sycamore, close to a spring
of good water, and the tomb of a sht'th We now reach the margin of the. desert the route still leading towards the N, and ascend
to the plateau of the Neoropolis (p. 378).

(3) Winter Route. During the period of tho inundation after
having visited the statue ofRamses, we return to the. mil) end






