of Cairo. Iu.tirth. J. Route. 377

of the embankment (see p. 372), which leads back to Bedrashfin,
and then turn to the N. and traverse the whole of the plantation,
until we reach another embankment which winds across the plain
towards the W., andis interruptedbytwo bridges. Distance from the
statue of Ramses to the ist bridge 20 min.; thence to the second
bridge t 4 hr.; from this bridge to the margin of the desert 20 min.;
and to Mariette's house 20 min. more. (The return-route to the
station of Bedrashén will take nearly 11/2 hr., without stoppage.)

The two routes unite on the outskirts of the desert, and ascend
to the plateau over the ruins of an ancient village which was perhaps inhabited by the embalmers of the dead. On the right are
grottoes hewn in the rocks. Near the first of these is a deep shaft.
now covered up, where human mummies, and those of several eats,
were found. In the third grotto, on the right, is the figure ofa
cow hewn in the rock, representing the goddess Father o. 135).

The traveller may inspect the step-pyramid (p. 382) of Sa 15513 on the way to Mariette's House, at which he is recommended to rest before visiting the rest of the Necropolis.
This pyramid is reached by either of the paths indicated on the
map (p. 378) in 20 minutes. One of these leads to the N.,
round the small pyramid nearest to the step-pyramid, and then
turns to the W. through a sandy depression; the other path leads
more to the left (NJVj), passing several tombs and shafts, straight
in the direction of the Step-Pyramid (described at p. 382, and
most conveniently visited in going or returning). Having crossed
the E. enclosing wall, and passed round the RE. corner, we obtain. near the closed entrance on the N. side, a striking view towards the N. In the foreground lies the green valley of the Nile
bordered by palm-trees, and framed on both sides with the yellowish-grey desert; and we also observe the alabaster mosque of
Mohammed rAli at Cairo. On the left tower the three pyramids of
Gizeh, 9 M. distant, and the three nearer pyramids of Abusir. The
path pursues a W. direction for a short distance, then turns to the
right beyond the next heap of rubbish (N.W.), crosses the hollow,
and joins the above-mentioned path leading to Mariette's House.
Strangers are quite at liberty to enter and use the broad covered
terrace in front of the house, but for any very protracted occupation
of it the permission of the museum authorities should be obtained.
No charge is made for admission to the terrace, but it is usual to
give a fee oft fr. or more, according to the number of the party,
to the Beduins who take charge of the house, and who are much
better conducted than their rapacious brethren of Gizeh. A guide
to the tombs must be taken at Mariette's House, as visitors are
not admitted to them unattended. (Bakshish for the tombs of
Apis and Ti, 2 fr.)

The CHIEF ATTRACTIONS of the Necropolis of Sn, ra am the's'tep
Pyramid (p. 3S2), and the "Tomb
of Ti (p. 388). Nearly 150 tombs dating from the ancient empire have












