BAZAAR & 23

to enjoy perfect repose for a short time. This interval of tranquil
enjoyment is the favourite Oriental'kilt" (i. e. luxurious idleness).
Every hath contains a coffee and pipe establishment. Coffee and
hot eau sucrée are the favourite beverages. Before dressing, the
bather is generally provided with two or three more relays of fresh
towels, and thus the proceedings terminate. The whole of these
operations need not occupy much more than an hour, but Orientals
often devote a whole morning to the bath. - Many of the baths
are charitable foundations, where the natives pay little or nothing.
Europeans are generally expected to pay 8 piastres or more (including coffee and nargileh), and a fee of about 1 p. is given to the
'soap man' .--- A Turkish bath is particularlyrefreshing after a long
journey, and is an admirable preventive of colds and rheumatism,

but if too often repeated sometimes occasions boils.

'The women who can afford to do so visit the hammam frequently;
but not so often as the men. When the bath is not hired for the females of one family, or for one party of ladies exclusively, women of all
conditions are admitted. In general all the females of a house, and the
young boys, go together. They take with them their own seggadchs, and
the napkins, basins, etc., which they require, and even the necessary
quantity of sweet water for washing with soap, and for drinking; and
some carry with them fruits, sweetmeats, and other refreshments. A lady
of wealth is also often accompanied by her own bellu'nch or mash'tah,
who is the washer and tire-woman. Many women of the lower orders
wear no covering whatever in the bath, not even a napkin round the
waist; others always wear the napkin and the high clogs. There are
few pleasures in which the women of Egypt delight so much as in the
visit to the bath, where they frequently have entertainments; and often,
on these occasions, they are not a little noisy in their mirth. They avail
themselves of the opportunity to display their jewels and their finest
clothes, and to enter into familiar conversation with those whom they
meet there, whether friends or strangers. Sometimes a mother chooses
a bride for her son from among the girls or women whom she chances
to see in the bath. On many occasions, as. for instance, in the case of
preparations for a marriage, the bath is hired for a select party, consisting of the women of two or more families, and none else are admitted; but it is more common for a lady and a few friends to hire a
K'hilweh: this is the name they give to the apartment of the hanafiyeh.
There is more confusion among a mixed company of various ranks; but
where all are friends, the younger girls indulge in more mirth and
frolic. They spend an hour or more under the hands of the bellaneh,
who rubs and washes them, plaits their hair, applies the depilatory,
etc. They then retire to the beyt-owwal 0r meslakh, and there. having
put on part of their dress, or a large loose shirt, partake of various refreshments, which, if they have brought none with them, they may procure by sending an attendant of the bath to the market. Those who
smoke take their own pipes with them. On particular occasions of festivity, they are entertained with the songs of two or more'Al'mehs, hired
to accompany them to the bath.' - LANE.

{ 14 ]. Bazaars.

Shops in the East, which are frequently connected with the
Workshops where the wares are made, are generally congregated
together according to handicrafts in a certain quarter of the town,
or in a certain street or lane. They are named after the respective






