37S Route J. SAKKARA. Environs

been discovered, but must of them were in a ruined condition. Many
of them, however, yielded interesting spoil to the scientific explorer, and
copies were made from their monuments and decorations, but most of
them have again been covered up to preserve them from the influence of
the air and the rapacity of reli unters, so that the visitor is now hardly
aware of their existence. The scientific traveller, however, may obtain
special permission from the museum authorities to unearth the interesting
tomb of Ptahhotep (p. 401), or any of the others.

The rocky margin of the plateau of the desert, between the village
of Abusir (p. 370 ] and the road ascending from Salglgira, contains numerous Tomb-Chambers (comp. p. 382), none of which now merit a visit,
except perhaps that of Bekenrauf, of the period of Psammetikb l. The
Mustaba Farin, see p. 402, the Pyramids of Dahshtr, p. toe.

The Grottoes of the 1121's Mummies and of the Cuts, containing a number of mummies piled up together, are now closed, being considered
dangerous. The whole of the soil of the Necropolis is indeed so honeycomhed with tombs that great caution should be used in traversing it.
Some of the open shafts are no less than 50 ft. in depth.

'The traveller is lost in the immense
expanse of desert, which he sees full of
Pyramids before him; is struck with
terror at the unusual scene of vastness,
and shrinks from attempting any discuvery amidst the moving sands of
Saccara.' Bruce.

The Necropolis of Sahlrara [ from Sokar, p. 126) extends over an
undulating tract of the desert, which, according to M. Mariette's
computation, is about 7700 yds. in length, and 550--1600 yds. in
width It contains sepulchral monuments of every kind, from the
pyramid to the rock-hewn cavern, dating both from the ancient and
the later empire. Many of the recent excavations are now covered
with loose heaps of light--coloured sand. The whole of the Necropolis has been repeatedly explored both by the Byzantines and the
Khalifs, as well as by modern explorers. Many generations have
been enriched by its treasures, and yet an immense profusion of
relies was still left to be discovered by the indefatigable M. Mariette. It is nevertheless probable that this mine of antiquities,
which has so marvellously preserved everything committed to its
keeping, is still far from being exhausted.

Ancient writers have recorded many interesting facts regarding
the Necropolis of Memphis, and have mentioned various parts of it
by name. The Pyramids, eleven in number, have indeed been
identified, and the Serapeum has been excavated, but all trace of
many other features have been irrevocably lost. Who, for example,
can possibly tell where now to look for the sacred take across which
the mummy of Apis was conveyed by boat; or the beautiful pastures near it, which were once compared with Homer's asphodel
meadows; or the temple of the gloomy Hecate, and the gates
of Couytus and of Truth; or the site of the statue ofJustice without
a head; or the multitude of sacred and profane buildings mentioned
by the later (: m-k papyri as having belonged to this burialgrouud? On the other hand, the numerous tombs within its pro





