of Cairo. sAJgigftm. 4. Route. 379

cincts afford sufficient information with regard to the different periods at which its silent denizens were admitted.

The TOMB: are of two kinds, viz. Malstabas (literally'benches')
and flock-Chambers. The Mastaba is a mausoleum of solid masonry constructed on the surface of the earth. Its form is usually
rectangular, and the walls slope inwards, so that the whole structure
forms a kind of low truncated pyramid. Many of them are built of
limestone-blocks of moderate size, and others of Nile--bricks. While
the pyramids are always entered from the N., the door of the
Mastaba is usually on the E. side. On the stone door-posts
generally rests the drum, a cylindrical block of stone, probably
in imitation of the round section of a palm trunk, such as still
usually covers the doorways of huts built of Nile--mud or sun-dried
bricks. The drum usually bears the name of the deceased, but
rarely his.titles, which are often very lengthy. Grand~children and
other near relations of the Pharaohs, however, are distinguished

O
by the added to their names, being a title of honour which

might he translated-'blood relation of the king'. The door-posts
occasionally bear a full-length representation of the deceased; and,
where there is no drum, the architrave of the door sometimes bears
an inscription. The arrangements of the interior vary. At the
back of the principal chamber there is usually a monument with
numerous inscriptions, giving the whole ofthe titles of the deceased,
the names of his nearest relations, and a number of prayers, generally addressed to Anubis, the guide of souls in the infernal regions and the tutelary god of the realms of the dead. In front of
these monuments, and in presence of the family, it was usual for
the priests appointed for the purpose to perform the rites due to
the manes of the deceased (p. 139). Osiris is rarely mentioned by the
inscriptions, and deathis hardly ever alluded to. hear the principal
chamber there is generally a niche closed with masonry, to which M.
Mariette gave the name of serdab ('hollow space"), and which in
many of the mas..tabas either contains, or formerly contained, a statue
of the deceased. Most of the serdabs are entirely closed, but some
of them have small openings in the wall, through which it was
probably customary to introduce incense. The well, or perpendicular shaft into which the body of the deceased was sunk, is usually
on the W. side of the Mastaba; for it was in the direction of the
setting sun that his soul would cross the threshold of the next
world. The sarcophagus is usually an oblong stone box with a flat
lid, containing a wooden coffin tapering towards the feet, with a
human face represented on it at the head. Within this coffin was
placed the body, either wrapped in a cloth, or without any covering. There is here no trace of the careful inunnnifying process of
a later age.

The ornamentation of the interior of the mastabas is very rich.



