350 Route J. sAtitifrRA. Environs

The first chamber usually contains well--executed basreliefs, mostly
coloured, of members of the family of the deceased, and short inscriptions in the simple hieroglyphics of that period, with their
scanty determinative symbols, recording the dignities of the deceased, and mentioning the estates from which his faithful servants
have brought offerings to the manes of their master. Other chambers
contain carefully arranged lists of the appropriate offerings to be
presented to the deceased at different seasons, and on the various
festivals, such as meat and poultry, vegetables and fruit, drinks
and essences; and adjoining these are represented the altars laden
with these gifts. We seldom find any allusion to death, or the life
in the next world, but there are generally faithful representations
of the favourite pursuits of the deeeased [ bird--catching, fishing, etc),
of his most valuable possessions [ horde of cattle, ships, etc.; but
curiously enough, neither camels, sheep, nor horses, which last seem
to have been introduced by the Ikasosj), and the tasks performed
by his servants (agricultural operations, vintage, carpentering,
glass-blowing, gold-washing, papyrus-gathering, writing, etc.)
These coloured basreliefs form a most interesting link in the
history of ancient art, and are not without aesthetic attraction also.
They constitute, as it were, a picture-book in stone, illustrative of
the manners and customs which prevailed during the earnest known
stage of human civilisation.

'If we enquire into the motives of these primordial inhabitants of
the Nile Valley in decorating the walls of their tombs with these curious
scenes, it would appear that they intended to hand down to posterity a
record of the earliest achievements of mankind in the province of art.
and civilisation. Having hardly emerged from the simplicity of the prim: eval condition, they seem to have been proud of displaying the
results of their peaceful conquests over the animate and inanimate
world around them, and to have been desirous of informing posterity
of these triumphs. At that remote epoch, to behold was to admire. The
chief occupation of the period was apparently to embellish the tombs in
the best possible manner, and it is these decorations which constitute the
pictorial history of primitive Egypt' .--- Brugsch.

Those tombs probably originated somewhat in the following
manner. Every Egyptian of moderate means, and particularly the
great and wealthy, began during his lifetime to plan the construction of a tomb worthy of his position in society. The longer
he lived and the wealthier he botanic, the handsome: and the
more spacious was the structure. When the architect had lined the
interior with smoothly hewn stones from the quarries of'l'ura, the
task of the draughtsman and the decorator began. In accordance
with certain rules regarding the objects to be represented and
their grouping, which seem to have been followed in all the tombs
of a similar kind, or perhaps according to well-defined patterns,
the draughtsxnan first proceeded to divide the walls into sections
of different sizes, and sometimes into regular squares, with red
chalk, and then to fill them up with sketches of the representations
and the hieroglyphies with which the tomb was to be adorned. The



