r of Cairo. 311115311111. J. Route. 381

stone-mason then converted these sketches with his chisel into rclicf figures, some of which were flat, while others were raised about
21/2 lines or more. Lastly the painter coloured these designs, the
most conspicuous tints being black, reddish brown, pale brown,
yellow, light and dark blue, and green. Parts of the design that
were intended to be white were not painted, but left in the natural
colour of the stone. All the colours so far as they have been
chemically analysed, are earthy substances, and are beautifully
preserved, except in cases where they have been too long exposed
to the sun and wind. The women are always painted ofa pale yellow colour, and the men of a reddish brown tint. The metals also
have their conventional colours, iron being blue, and bronze yellow
or red, while wood is painted brown, or, when in logs, greenish
grey. In painting animals the artists endeavoured to imitate their
natural colours, and we accordingly find that the cows and calves
are black, brown, and dappled. - On the death of the proprietor
of the tomb, his remains were deposited at the bottom of the
mummy-shaft, and the task of decorating the tomb was at an end,
so that the most perfect sculptures are to be seen in juxtaposition
with the mere designs in red chalk. If other members of the family died, their mummies were likewise deposited in the common
shaft, but no allusion to their history was recorded on the walls of
the principal chamber. An exception, however, was made in the
case of the widow of the deceased, whose statue was placed on the
W. side of the tomb-chamber beside that of her husband, as has
been done in the tomb of Ti. It is also worthy of remark that the
name of the proprietor of the tomb is always engraved in hieroglyphies on the so-called drum of the doorway and on that of a'stele'
fashioned in imitation of a door on the W. side of the tomb (as in
the case of the tomb of Ti, p. 358 ]. In a number of the tombs it
has been observed that a single figure has been obliterated, while
the whole of the rest of the decorations are well preserved and
intact. The figures thus defaced are supposed to have been those
of dishonest servants, whose misconduct induced the family to
erase their portraits. At stated intervals, onholidays, and probably
also on the anniversary of the death of the occupant of the tomb,
the family was went to assemble in the decorated tomb--chamber
and the anterior court, bringing offerings of food which they eon »
sumed in honour of the deceased, while homage was done to the
statue by burning incense around it.

The Rock Tombs, placed in long rows, and most of them excavated on the E. and S. slopes of the plateau, are in a far simpler
style than the mastabas, both in point of construction and of internal decoration; but they sometimes contain similar decorations,
particularly in Upper Egypt. _

With regard to the Construction of the Pyramids, see p. 300.
The peculiarities of the'Step Pyramid" are mentioned below.





