392 Route 4. HAKISRRA. Environs

The'Step-Pyramid of Salil.dra (Arab. Et-Hamm et-Mednrroya,
i.e.'provided with steps'), a very conspicuous feature in the landscape, and the'Cognisance of Saklsara', may be inspected by the
traveller externally either in going or returning. Egyptologists differ
as to the period ofits construction. Some authorities, relying on
a passage of Manetho, in which it is stated that'ho LUnenephes ]
built the pyramid at Cochome', attribute the monument to a king
of the lst Dynasty. Cochome was the Greek form of the hieroglyphic name Ka-kam ('the black bull'), which occurs on the'stelCS'
and sarcophagi of the Apis tombs as a place in the vicinity of the
Necropolis. If this view be correct, we have before us the most
ancient structure in the world. Other authorities, however, reject
this view, and assign the monument to the period of the 5th Dynasty, but for equally slender reasons. The pyramid consists of six
stages, the lowest of which is about 373/4 ft. in height, the next
36 ft., the third 341/2 ft., the fourth 32% in, the fifth 31 ft., and
the sixth 291/3 ft., while each stage is about 61/12 ft. in width. The
peculiarity of the pyramid is not its graduated form, as every other
pyramid when deprived of its external incrustation would present
the same appearance (comp. p. 350), but consists in the facts that
it does not stand like all the others exactly facing the principal
points of the compass, that the area it covers is oblong instead of
square (N. and S. sides 354 ft., E. and W. sides 398 ft.) and in
particular that it contains a very numerous and complicated series
of passages and chambers in the interior. The unique form of these
chambers, which were explored by General Minutoli in 1821, led
M. Mariette to conjecture that they once contained the Apis tombs
of the primeval monarchy. Two of the chambers are said to have
been decorated with convex pieces of green fayence, inlaid in a peculiar way in stucco, so as to form a kind of mosaic. A richly gilded
skull and gilded soles of feet, together with other interesting relics
found here and numerous treasures collected by Minutoli, were unfortunately lost at the mouth of the Elbe. The door of the steppyramid with its architravc of white limestone covered with hieroglyphics, and the door-posts formed of somewhat rough blocks of
limestone and green glazed bricks, were removed by Lepsius in
1845 to the museum at Berlin. - This pyramid must have been
used for different purposes from the great pyramids of' Gizeh, but
the scanty inscriptions found here afford no information on the
subject. At one point on the S. side, where the outer masonry
has been destroyed, the jointing of the stones may be inspected.
The material used is an inferior clayey kind of limestone quarried
in the neighbourhood. The pyramid may be ascended without
danger, but on no account without the help of the lleduins,
as the surface is crumbling and treacherous. ton one occasion,
during the period of the inundation, M. Mariette met with a
troop of wild boars on the third step.) The view from the sum


