of Cairo. SAKKKRA. J. Route. 383

mit is very inferior to that from the Pyramid of Cheops (p. 356),
as the perpendicular height is 197 it. only.

About 250 paces to the S.W. of the Step-Pyramid is the Pyramid
of King Unas, which was opened in 1881 and has been made accessible to the public (tank of admission obtained from Messrs.
Thus. Cook S; Son, in Cairo, next door to Shepheard's Hotel). The
entrance, now provided with an iron gate, was found closed by
gigantic blocks of sandstone, occupying the entire width of the
corridor, and by three doors of granite; and it required the expenditure of a vast amount of labour to remove these obstacles. The
interior contains two large chambers and a smaller one, the former
with a lofty pointed roof, the latter with a low and flat roof. The
two large chambers contain numerous funereal inscriptions, most
of them well preserved. The granite sarcophagus of the king, who
was a member of the 5th Dynasty, stands in the second chamber,
close to the wall. The three walls enclosing it are of oriental
alabaster and are adorned with brightly coloured paintings. The
stone beams of the ceilings do not rest on the side-walls, but are
separated from them by a considerable interval, thus relieving
them of an immense pressure (comp. p. 358 ].

The best coup rl'oeil of the inner construction of the pyramids
is obtained at the Pyramid of Pepi A, about 3/4 hr. to the W. of
the village of Shh m, which has been opened from the top (comp.
p. 402).

The Serapeum. Standing on the terrace of Mariette's House,
we observe, immediately to the N., a sandy hollow, from which
rise several heaps of stone and hillocks of sand. These mounds
mark the site of the statues of the (haw-Egyptian period, standing on the walls which flanked the approach (Dromos) from the
Egyptian to the Greek Serapeum (see below). The statues [ including a marble Cerberus in the form of a lion with its tail terminating in a snake's head) are in a very mutilated condition, and
have been purposely covered with sand. () n the W. side was
situated the Egyptian Serapeum, or Mausoleum of Apia, the sacred
bull, which had spent its life in its temple [ Apieunfi at Memphis
(p. 373), and after its death was buried in the vaults of Sakhfira.
Owing to an erroneous translation, the Greeks regarded Serapis as
a distinct Egyptian deity.

The Dead Apia, or Osiris--Apis (Asur-Hapi, or Sammie), is termed the
'reviving Ptah' (p. 126), and probably symbolised the perpetual regenerating
power of the god. So, too, Apia was associated with the moon, which seems
to undergo hourly change. while remaining unaltered. llapi, the genius of
death, bears the head of the eynocephalus, which was also a symbol of the
moon. The File, the great regenerator of the parched soil, hure the same
name (Hard), and its rise was associated with the light of the moon,
which by one of its rays impregnated the cow which bore Apis. As the
embodiment of the soul of Osiris in the infernal regions, Apis was the
principle which revives everything dead. The great festival of the rise



