2-1 mums.

trades, such as'shi.k en-Nrryly1stn' (market of the copper-soul,
'tr'ohuryt" yeh' (of the jewellers), Khurdugiyeh' (of the ironmongers),
Knagfibin' (of the butchers), and sometimes after a neighbouring
mosque These bazaars are generally crowded with customers and
idlers, and afford the traveller an excellent opportunity of observing Oriental manners. ] n all the larger towns and villages
there are extensive Kln'ms, or depots of the goods of the wholesale
merchants, who however often sell by retail to strangers.

The shop (rlukktin) is a recess, quite open to the street, and
generally about lift. in width, the floor being on a level with the
mnggaba, or seat in front. on which the owner smokes his pipe,
retails his goods, chats with his friends, and performs his devotions.
The inscriptions over many of the shops do not announce the name
or business of the occupant, but consist of pious phrases, such as
(Allah! thou who openest the gates of profit!"0 Allah! thou
who helpcst us in want!"Aid from Allah, and rapid victory 1'
These and similar ejaculations are invariably repeated by the shopkeeper as he takes down his shutters in the morning. When he
leaves the shop he either hangs a net in front of it, or begs a neighbour to keep guard over it. The intending purchaser seats himself
on the mastaba, and after the customary salutations proceeds to
mention his wishes. Unless the purchaser is prepared to pay whatever is asked, he will find that the conclusion of a satisfactory
bargain involves a prodigious waste of time and patience.

As a rule, a much higher price is demanded than will ultimately be accepted, and bargaining is therefore the universal
custom, "the purchaser knows the proper price of the goods beforehand, he offers it to the seller, who will probably remark'lmlil'
(it is little), but will nevertheless sell the goods. The seller sometimes entertains the purchaser with coffee from a neighbouring
coffee-shop in order to facilitate the progress of the negotiations.
If the shopkeeper persists in asking too high a price, the purchaser
withdraws, but is often called back and at last offered the article
at a reasonable price. A favourite expression with Oriental shopkeepers is'Mudu buhiW Linkc it for nothing), which is of course
no more meant to be taken literally than the well known Tttt bttak'
(my house is thy house). When in the course of the bargaining the
purchaser increases his offer in order to make a concession, he
generally uses the expression'min shank' (for thy sake).

Nothing raises the traveller so much in the estimation ofOrientals as flrmness in resisting imposition; but even the most wary
and experienced must be prepared to pay somewhat higher prices
for everything than the natives themselves. The various prices
mentioned in the Handbook will give the traveller a fair idea of
what may be justly demanded. and will prove a safeguard against
any serious extortion.

The dragomans and valets--dc--place are always in league with






