384 Route 4. SAKKARA. Environs

of the Nile, which at many places measured as many ells as there were
days in each phase of the moon, was also called the "Festival of the
Birth of Apis', and the period of 25 years, which was named after Apis,
was a lunar epoch, consisting of 309 average synodic months, equivalent
to about 25 Egyptian years. When Apis survived his allotted period of
25 years, it is said that he used to be drowned in the Nile, but this cannot have been the invariable practice. as the Apis inscriptions mention
that one of these sacred bulls lived 26 years.

The whole of the area was excavated and explored by Mariette, who in 1850 found a number of sphinxes from Sakkfira
in private gardens, and was thus led to conjecture that they belonged to the Serapis Temple mentioned by Strabo and in several
Greek papyri. The passage in Strabo runs thus: -'There is also
a temple of Serapis there in a very sandy place, so that mounds of
dust are heaped up by the wind, by which the sphinxes are either
buried up to their heads or half concealed, whence one may understand the danger incurred by a person going to the temple and
overtaken by a gust of wind" .---. In the course of his excavations
M. Mariette first came upon the Sphinx Avenue, which led from
the Apis tombs to a Serapeum of the Greek period. It terminated
on the E. side, where the chief entrance was situated, in a semicircle formed by eleven statues of Greek philosophers and poets,
which now grace the Louvre. The narrow approach (Dramas) was
flanked by a double wall, on which stood the figures of animals
mentioned above.

The Greek Serapeum, which was in the best preservation, was a small
example of the simple form of a Greek temple'in antis', and consisted
of a calm and a pronaos, approached by a flight of steps, with two Corinthian columns between the "anue' or pilasters of the f'de. Adjoining
this Greek temple stood an Egyptian chapel with walls sloping inwards
and a concave cornice, which was once adorned with the fine statue of
the Apis bull now preserved in the Louvre. la the sand under the pavement in front of these buildings were found an immense number ofsmall
bronze images of gods, of which no fewer than 531 were collected in one
day. The desert and the sterile sand with which it is covered were regarded by the Egyptians as'typhouic', or under the influence of Typhon,
the god of evil, and these images were accordineg placed in it with a
view to purge and consecratc it.

The upper part of an Egyptian Serapeum, which seems to have
been built in the usual form of the Egyptian temples (with pylons,
anterior court, etc), was also discovered here, but u as partly destroyed or overthrown in the course ofthe excavations. These scanty
remains, together with those of the Greek Serapeum, are now completely covered with sand, to a depth, it is said, of 60 ft. or more.

Within the extensive chambers of the Serapeum there was also established a colony of hermits, who lived in the strictest seclusion in cells
attached to the various chapels of the temple, as appears from recently
deciphered Greek papyri in the British Museum and the Louvre, which
were brought from Memphis. Connected with the worship of Serapis,
the deity revered above all others in thc Alexandrian period, there was
a regularly organised monastic system. The monks (xi-ruler, i.e.'reeluses0 on entering the order gave up all their
worldly possessions, and subsisted entirely on food brought to them
by their relations. They were not permitted to leave their chug, and a






