r of Cairo. shr.irs" Ams. d. Route. 385

kind of air-hole formed their sole channel of communication with the
outer World They called each other brethren, and spoke of a common
father. Some of their dreams and visions, in which battles with demons
play an important part, have been recorded. Buried alive in these dismal recesses, they hoped to purify themselves by the prolonged service
of Serapis. We also learn from the papyri that similar monastic institutions were connected with other temples of Serapis and with those
of Isis, which were often associated with the 511111111 temples.There is
no doubt that these airmen. in the service of Serapis were the prototypes
of the Christian monks and ascetics of alater period. The first Christian
hermits (é'rxsxlsmuévon are also said to have received their food thrOugh
the air-holes of their Lens and to have chiefly aimed at attaining to a
condition of 11411211 or gradus impatibititalis (tie. insensibility to external
impressions) .---- The Christian monastic and ascetic orders are said to
have been founded hy s _ Paul and Anthony of Them, but there is no
sufficient historical foundation for the statement (p. 99, 480)

In the subterranean part of the Egyptian Serapeum, hewn in
the rock, where the Apis bulls were interred, there were found no
fewer than 3000 monuments, and it was ascertained that the bulls
were interred in different ways at different periods of Egyptian history. No Apis sarcophagus dating from the primeval monarchy
was discovered, and it would seem that the first placed here dates
from the reign of Amenophis III. (18th Dynasty). On the surface
above, a chapel was erected in honour of each bull, while his
remains were deposited in one of the square chambers hewn in the
rock, to which a sloping passage descended from the chapeL No
trace of these chapels now remains. Every Apis was interred in
this way down to the thirtieth year of the reign of Ramses II. (19th
Dynasty), after which the vaults began to take a different form. A
subterranean gallery, about 110 yds. in length, was now hewn in
the rock, and flanked with rudely excavated chambers forty in
number, which were walled up after having received the remains
of the sacred bull. This was done down to the twentieth year of
the reign of Psammetikh I., the first king of the 26th Dynasty, when
four of the Apis vaults fell in, and another site was chosen for a
new series of tombs. In the thirty-third year of that king's reign
a new gallery, flanked as before with vaults, was accordingly
excavated for the purpose. These vaults, which are much more
carefully constructed than the two series of earlier date, are still
accessible, while the others have long since been filled up.

Leaving Mariette's house, and turning to the left, we observe on our right (N) the above mentioned hollow with its heaps
of sand and stones, which conceal the badly preserved statues of
the Greek period. The trodden path leads hence to the N. w,
2 min. to the entrance [ P ]. a) of the "'Apis Tombs (Egyptian Serupcum), situated between sharply hewn rocks The ceiling having
threatened to fall in at places, Khedive Isma'il caused the vaults
to be thoroughly repaired at considerable expense, and closed
with a gate in 1869, so that they can now be visited with perfect
safety.

The sixty-four Apis vaults now accessible, which were begun

BAEDEKER's Egypt I. 2nd Ed. 25



