3 86 Roule 4. SAKKKRA. Environs

in the reign of Psammetikh I. and extended at intervals down to the
time of the last of the Ptolemies, form a series of vaults on both
sides of a lofty horizontal corridor hewn in the solid rock. These
chambers average 26 ft. in height, and their pavement and vaulted
ceilings are constructed of excellent Mokattam stone. The passages
into which they open have an aggregate length of 380 yds., and
are about 10 ft. in width and
171/2 ft. in height. Twentyfour of the chambers still contain the huge sarcophagi in
which the Apis mummies were
deposited. These monster cof





it



",3, fins average 13 it. in length,
WE 7ft. in width, and lift in
",4 height, and no less than 65 tons

in weight. The covers, five of
which are composed of separate
pieces of stone cemented together, have in several instances
been pushed on one side, and
on the top of some of them the
Arabs, for some unexplained
reason, have built rude masses
of masonry. All the sarcophagi,
when discovered by Mariette,
had been emptied of their contents, with the exception of
two, which still contained a number of trinkets.

Twenty-four of the sarcophagi are of granite, but three of them
only hear inscriptions, briefly recording the name of the king by
whom they were erected. One of these sarcophagi bears the name
of Amusia [ the last king but one of the. 26th Dynasty), another
that of Cambyses, and a third that of Khabbash (p. 94), a king of
the house of the Suites, who gained possession of the throne during the reign of Darius and occupied it until the second year of
Xerxes. The cartouches on a fourth sarcophagus, dating from one
of the later Ptolemies, are empty. The most instructive relics
found here were the'Apis Sides" or small stone votive tablets presented by pilgrims to the shrine of the bull last interred, and
which, it is said, could only be received within seventy days of
the sacred animal's death. These tablets during the earliest period
were attached to the basement of the small temple of Apis erected
above the vault, and afterwards to the wall which shut off the
vault from the main passage. As time rolled on, they were set
up at a still greater distance from the tomb, although, curiously
enough, specially favoured persons were permitted to place Staluttllcs, hearing inscriptions similar to those on the steles, near the

dummy.

ref ],

"



