of Cairo. SA Ingram. 4. Route. 387

sarcophagus. These tablets have yielded most valuable information
as to the ancient Egyptian mode of reckoning time, and particularly regarding the later periods ongyptian history, as they record
the days, months, and years of the king's reign on which the Apis
revered by the donor was born, enthroned, and interred respectively.
We have thus been enabled to determine with precision the duration of the reigns of many of the Pharaohs and the order in which
they succeeded each other. Most of these relics are now preserved
in the Louvre. If the ceremonies which accompanied the obseqnics
of the Apis bulls were as magnificent as the sarcophagi were costly, Diodorus probably does not exaggerate when he informs us that
the chief priest of an Apis bull which died of old age shortly after
the accession of Ptolemy Lagi expended on its burial not only the
whole of a large sum then in the coffers of the temple, but a farther sum of fifty talents of silver (about 11,7001.) advanced by
the king. Diodorus also assures us that in his time the keeper of
Apis (whose office was doubtless a very honourable one) spent no
less than a hundred talents on the obsequies of a bull.

Passing through the gateway, we enter a Chamber (PI. la) of
considerable dimensions, with niches of various sizes in the bare
limestone walls, where votive tablets of the kind mentioned above
were once placed. Visitors light their candles here. The guide
now proceeds towards the right. After a few paces we observe at
our feet a huge block of black granite [ P1, c), which once formed
the lid of a sarcophagus Beyond it we turn to the left, and after
ten paces reach an enormous granite sarcophagus CPI. d), which so
nearly fills the passage that there is only just room to pass it on its
right side. The lid and the sarcophagus belong to each other, having doubtless been executed for the reception of one of the sacred
bulls, but were probably stopped here on their way to the vault
for which they were destined, in consequence of the crisis in
Egypt's history which caused the overthrow of the worship of Apis.
Beyond this sarcophagus we continue to proceed towards the W.
between here walls of rock, and then turn to the left (S. ] into another passage destitute of ornament. This leads us to the Principal Passage Jn. A, B), running parallel with the first, from E. to
W., and penetrating the solid rock This passage is flanked with
the side-chambers, about 26 ft. in height, which contain the colossal sarcophagi of the Apis bulls (see above), each consisting of
a single block of black or red polished granite or of limestone. One
of the finest (Pl. e), composed of black granite, and bearing the
best executed hieroglyphic inscriptions on its polished exterior,
may be entered by means of a ladder. After having traversed the
whole of the W. part of the main gallery and returned to the point
at which we entered it, we next visit the B. Part of the gallery,
where we observe several more sarcophagi. We then reach a side-.
passage (Pl. o diverging to the right, from which another passage

25 *



