388 Route 4. SAIgrgfmA. Maytabn

leads to the right, in a direction parallel with the main corridor,
but now built up, as it was in a dangerous condition. A little
beyond this point we reach the E. end of the main gallery (Pl. B).
Retracing our steps for a short distance, we turn to the right, pass
over another sarcophagus which
blocks the way by means of steps,
and thus regain the door by which
we entered the vaults. The temperature in these subterranean
chambers, to which the outer air
has little or no access, is always
about 79", that being the mean
temperature of Cairoi

Before taking our leave of this
extraordinary place, we may quote
If: the interesting words of its discoverer:
*1 confess', says Mariette,'that
when I penetrated for the first time, on
12th Nov. 1851, into the Apis vaults, I
was so profoundly struck with astonishment (hat the feeling is still fresh
in my mind, although five years have
elapsed since then. Owing to some
chance which it is difficult to account
for, a chamber which had been walled up in the thirtieth year of the
reign of Ramses II. had escaped the
notice of the plunderers of the vaults,
and I was so fortunate as to find it
untouched. Although 3700 years had
elapsed since it was closed, everything
in the chamber seemed to be precisely
in its original condition. The huge marks of the Egyptian who had inserted the last stone in the wall built
to conceal the doorway were still recognisable on the lime. There were
also the marks of naked feet imprinted on the sand which lay in one corner of the tomb--chamber. Everything
was in its original condition in this
tomb, where the embalmed remains
of the bull had lain undisturbed for
w 5 n "thirty-seven centuries. Many travellers would think it terrible to live

here alone in the desert for a number
of years; but such discoveries as that of the chamber of Ramses 11. pro
duce impressions compared with which everything else sinks into insrgnificance, and which one constantly desires to renew".

The *4'Mastaba of Ti (2130 paces to the NE. of Mariette's
house; see Map, p. 378) is the most interesting and best preserved
monument of this kind [ camp p. 379 ] in the extensive Necropolis
of the ancient capital of the primzeval monarchy. It lies in an old
street of tombs, now covered up; and the surface of the soil has



1





