of Ti. sanlgfana. J. Route. 389

been so raised with deposits of the sand of the desert that the tomb
rather resembles a subterranean rock--structure than a building on
the surface of the earth. Very little of the exterior is therefore
now visible, but the interior, which has been completely excavated, is executed with the utmost care, and the sculptures on the
walls exhibit a skill which is truly marvellous when it is remembered that the mausoleum was erected in the 5th Dynasty, in the
time of the builders of the pyramids of Abusir, that is, about 4500
years ago. Both the paintings and the hieroglyphics which cover
the walls are executed in remarkably delicate and flat bas-relief,
the outlines being sharp and distinct, while the projecting parts
are at the same time subdued and harmonious. The hieratic
canon (p. 161) has already imparted to the human figures a somewhat conventional type, notwithstanding their spirited action, but
there is a refreshing fidelity to nature in the attempts of the artists to represent animals. The painting of the figures is preserved
at places. Each of the larger scenes is presided over by the commanding figure of Ti himself, the proprietor of the tomb, who is
easily distinguishable by his loftier stature. He wears a wig with
the usual looks, and his features were doubtless copied from life,
as is proved by their resemblance to those of his statue now preserved at 13131515 (p. 306). In some cases his chin is prolonged by
a small false beard. Around his loins he wears a kind of apron,
carefully folded, and pointed in front, and from his neck hangs a
broad necklace. With one hand he leans on a long staff, and in the

. :5
other he holds his baton of office. Ti hieroglyphic a, as the

inscriptions in the tomb-chamber inform us (p. 396), was a dignitary of the highest rank in the service of Ra-nefer-ar-ka, Ra-enuser, and Kaka, monarchs of the 5th Dynasty. He was a'semer'
(companion, adjutant, or chamberlain) of the king,'enthroned in
the heart of his lord', a'master of the secrets' (privy counsellor),
'loving his sovereign', a'president of the gate of the palace', a
'secret counsellor of the king in all his royal assemblies', a'secret
counsellor for the execution of the commands of the king', and a
'president of all the royal works and the royal department of writing'. He also held a high sacerdotal office at the pyramids of Abusir (p. 370), and he is elsewhere called one of the chiefs of the
prophets, a president of the sacrifices and purifications, and a
guardian of the mystery of the divine speech. His wife Neferhotep-s, who is frequently represented by his side, was a member
of the royal family, but he himself was a man of humble parentage,
who had risen to distinction by his merit. His sons Ti and Tamut
(Tamuz) enjoyed the title of princes in consequence of the high
rank of their mother. Like other Egyptian ladies of distinction, the
wife of Ti is termed the'beloved of her husband', the'mistress of
the house', and the'palm of amiability towards her husband'.



