392 Route J. SA 1; tdhu. Mustaba

group of doves, cranes, a mountain-goat, two more antelopes, and
to the left, in the corner, four more mountain-goats. Adjoining
these figures on the left is another figure of Ti (Pl. 0.

Adjoining the right corner of the S. side of this court (see
above) is a corridor, formerly closed by a door, and also divided by
another doorway in the middle. It is now entered by a wooden
door, the key of which is brought by the guide.

On each side of this Corridor CPI. E) are several series of
bearers of offerings (comp. p. 380), one above the other. On the
right is a niche 91/4 ft. high and 6ft. wide, containing a'stele'
dedicated to the wife of Ti. On the left, on the inner part of the
pillar of the doorway, is Ti with his titles; then (between the first
and second doors) the transport of the statue of Ti and persons
offering incense. Hieroglyphics in different places inform us that
'this is the statue of thorn-acacia wood of the deceased Ti', and
'this is the statue of ebony, which they are drawing';'the drawing
of the statue is a good drawing'. -'The servants pour out water'
is the inscription at the place where a servant is wetting the
runners of the sledge which bears the statue. - On the right
(between the niche and the second door) are several more rows of
gift-bearers. On the door-posts (left) two male figures and (right)
Ti with his titles. Over the door (N. side) musicians and dancers,
and (B. side) Ti in a boat (damaged). We then come to a door
on the right, leading into an oblong, covered, and therefore
somewhat dark chamber (1'1. o, the scenes adorning which afford
us an insight into the domestic economy of the deceased. Among
them are represented a complete pottery and a bake-house, and
numerous vessels of various forms, destined for different uses.
On the upper part of the left door-post of this chamber a piece
of the sycamore wood to which the door was attached is still in its
place.

P Above, on each side of the door of this chamber Con the E.
side of the corridor), are several barges, some of which are light
boats with a number of rowers with broad, shovel-shaped oars,
while others of heavier build have lateen sails and are also steered
with ears. in the bow of the vessel stands a man with a long pole,
used for sounding, in the same way as is done at the present day.
These boats are conveying retainers of the deceased to Sakkfira to
pay homage to his remains; for we read beside one of the sailingboats: -'Arrival from the N. country, from the villages of the
family estate, in order that they may behold the chamberlain who
is perfect in consequence of his distinction in occupying the first
place in the heart of his sovereign, and the master of the mystery
of the kingdom of the dead, Ti'. The captain of the vessel, of
which we annex a woodcut, wishing to land on the W. bank, is represented as giving the command -'Oireetion, starboard, starboard!'



