INTERCOURSE WITH ORIENTALS. 25

the shopkeepers, from whom they receive 10-20 per cent on all articles purchased by travellers under their guidance.

Travellers are cautioned against purchasing antiquities, their
exportation being moreover strictly prohibited (p. G). Spurious
'antiquities' (particularly scarabzei) are largely manufactured both
in Egypt and Syria, and the name is unhesitatingly applied
to everything in the seller's possession, especially in Upper Egypt,
if he sees that the traveller is disposed to make purchases of the
kind. Remains of mummies are frequently offered for sale in the
neighbourhood of all the ancient burial-places.

Both at Alexandria and Cairo there are goods-agents (pp. 206,
235), who will undertake the transmission of all purchases to the
traveller's home at moderate cost. Their services are especially recommended if the traveller intends making a tour through the continent of Europe on his return from Egypt, in which case every
new article, or object not intended for personal use, is liable to
duty at half-a-dozen different frontiers.

(15). Intercourse with Orientals.

Orientals reproach Europeans with doing everything the wrong
way, such as writing from left to right, while they do the reverse,
and uncovering the head on entering a room, while they remove
their shoes. but keep their heads covered.

The following rules should he observed in paying a visit at an
Oriental house. The visitor knocks at the door with the iron knocker
attached to it, whereupon the question'min' (who is there?) is
usually asked from within. The visitor answers,'i tah' (open). In
the case of Muslim houses the visitor has to wait outside for a few
minutes in order to give the women who happen to be in the court
time to retire. He is their conducted into the reception-room, where
a low divan or sofa runs round three sides of the room, the place
of honour always being exactly opposite the door. According to the
greater or less degree of respect which the host desires to show for
his guest he rises more or less from his seat, and approaches one
or more steps towards him. The first enquiries are concerning
the health (see p. 199); the salutation'Salam aleikum' is reserved for Muslims. The transaction of business in the East always
involves a prodigious waste of time, and as Orientals attach no
value whatever to their time, the European will often find his patience sorely tried. If a visitor drops in and interrupts the business,
it would be an unpardonable affront to dismiss him on the plea of
being engaged. Again, when a visitor is announced at meal-time,
it is de rigueur to invite him, at least as a matter of form, to partake.
At all other hours of the day visitors are supplied with coffee,
which a servant, with his left hand on his heart, presents to each
according to his rank. Under the coffee-cup (Pngtn) there is






