399 Route 4. SAKKKRA. Musinluz

with a couple of prick--eared greyhounds, of the kind known in
N. Africa as'slughi' (p. 401).

Higher up (comp. Plan, p. 396) we observe scenes representing
the snaring of birds and the catching of fish in nets and baskets;
and we here read the last of the hieroglyphic inscriptions -'Let

















what is in it fall down', and'the emptying of the receptacle formed of rushes'.

To the right, towards the door, is a large and striking tableau,
representing *hTi engaged in hippopotamus hunting. He stands in
a light papyrus boat, leaning on a staff, and is more than double
the size of his attendants. The hunting of crocodiles and hippopotami on the Nile formed a favourite pastime of the wealthy
Egyptians, and we find scenes of this kind recurring frequently,
especially in the burial chapels of the earliest period of the Egyptian monarchy. The bearing of Ti is calm and dignified, while
the captain of the vessel,'the chief over the people of the birdpond Atet', seems to be attending to the directions of his master
with a view to communicate them to the crew. In the foremost
vessel three of the men are engaged in securing two aquatic monsters floundering in the water, one of which has been caught with
a kind of snare and is threatened with the spears of the hunters.
An allusion to this kind of hunting is said to be contained in the
following passage in the Book of Job Cxli. 1,2) l -'Canst thou draw
out leviathan with an hook? or his tongue with a cord which thou
lettest down? Canst thou put an hook into his nose? or bore his jaw
through with a thorn v.' - The other hippopotamus which the men
are endeavouring to secure has a small crocodile in its month. At
the stern of Ti's vessel is a smaller boat containing a boy, who is
about to strike on the head a silurus which he has caught. The
other fish represented in the water are so faithfully drawn that the
species to which they belong are easily determined. The three boots
are surrounded by papyrus plants, among the tops of which various
birds are sitting on their nests or fluttering about. A pair of kingfishers with their young, in a nest faithfully copied from nature,



