402 Route 1. SAISKKRA. Environs

S. group of Salilihra, a ride of 11/4 hr. to the S. of Mariette's
House. We pass the step-pyramid and the pyramid of Unas
on the left. Exactly in a line with the step-pyramid, parallel
with its W. side, and about a thousand paces to the w. of it, we
observe a space of ground enclosed by broad and massive, but now
very dilapidated, walls on the E., N., and W. sides, while the S.
side is bounded by the natural hills of the desert. The object of
this enclosure is a mystery to Egyptologists. M. Mariette, however,
conjectured, with much probability, that the place was used as a
pen for the numerous cattle slaughtered here as victims. Repeated excavations have been made within the precincts of the enclosure, but without result. EaCh side is 440 yds. in length.

Proceeding hence towards the Mastaba Far'fin, we observe the
tomb rising before us at no great distance, so that the route to it
cannot be mistaken. To the left are the dilapidated Pyramids of
Pepi I. and Solcar--em-saf. On the N.W. side of the mastaba is
the still more dilapidated Pyramid of Pepi 11., now used by
the Arabs as a quarry. All these pyramids are constructed exactly
in the same manner as that of King Unas (p. 383), but they are in
such a ruined and dangerous condition that the director of the
museum has had them all closed again, previously taking an accurate copy of the inscriptions they contain .--Tthastaba Far'un,
which may be ascended, is oblong in form, like all the other tombs
of the kind, with walls sloping inwards. The entrance is on the N.
side. It was first explored by M.Mariette, who believed that it
was the tomb of King Ullas (p. 383).

We may either retrace our steps hence to Mariette's House,
or traverse a depression to the N. of the mastaba, opening towards the E., and leading direct to the village of Sakhara.

it several days have been allowed for the excursion to Sa 11, the
traveller may next proceed to visit Dahshur. situated 3/! hr. to the S. of
the Mastaba Far'fin. This place is perhaps identical with the Acanthus
of Diodorus, where a leaky cask is once said to have stood, into which
water from the Nile was daily poured by 360 priests. On the margin of
the desert there still grow numerous sunt trees, as in ancient times. On
the desert plateau of Dahshfir rise two large and two smaller pyramids
of limestone, and two of brick, together with remains of others, all of
which are at a considerable distance from each other The northernmost
brick pyramid, which was once covered with 511111 or Stone, is curious.
It is sometimes pointed out, but without any authority, as the fabulous
pyramid which Herodotus mentions as having been erected by King
Asychis, who is said to have compelled his labourers to make bricks of
mud laboriously obtained from the bottom of a lake by means of poles.
The entrance on the N side was once approached by a vestibule. The present height of the pyramid is about 90 ft. only.

On the S. side of another ruined pyramid, situated to the S.W. of
the last, are traces of two embankments (p. MO, descending towards the
E. from the larger Stone Pyramid on the W. The last is still 32051. in
height and 234 yds. in width, being nearly as large as the Great Pyramid
(If eh and in its solitude presents a very imposing appearance, even
to an accustomed eye.

To the E. and S. are remains of several other pyramids. Still farther
to the S. rises a pyramid of peculiar form, sometimes called the Blamed



