of (him. MA'SAltA. J. Route. 403

Pyramid (comp. p. 150), the lower slopes rising at an angle of 54° 41',
while the sides of the apex form an angle of AT 50'. The whole pyramid
was probably originally intended to have the same slope as the apex (as
the sides of the neighbouring pyramid rise at an angle of 43° 36'), but
the lower part was never completed. This pyramid is 206%; yds. square
and 321 ft. in height. The interior was explored so early as the year
1560 by Mr. Melton, an English traveller. In 1860 M. Le Brun found a
small chamber in the interior. No clue to the name of the builder has
been discovered. On the extreme S. side of the plateau rises a, brick
pyramid. 99 ft. in height, marking the S. extremity of the vast Necropolis of Memphis, which extends down to Abfi Rodsh (p. 370), towards
the N., a distance of 23) Iéddm,
and to the Faydm, see It. 9.

Quarries of Tara and Baths of Helwin.

RAILWAY to (14 M.) llelwfin in 3Ia-1hr. (fares ll pinstres 10. 7 piastres 20,
k piastres 20 penis). The trains, of which there are four daily, start
from the new station in the Place Méhémet Ali. Another train starts
from the Central Station, passes the'Abbtstyeh and the Cartridge Factory,
joins the first-mentioned line at andtin. and reaches I_Ie1wan in 11/3 hr.

The railway to Helwan, which was constructed mainly for the
purpose of connecting the great military establishments at Tum
with the Citadel, runs from the Place Me'he'met Ali, in a S.
direction. It skirts the base of the Mokattam, on the slopes of
which are the interesting ruins of a mosque, and traverses the
burial-ground of the Mamelukes o. 327). To the right lies the
oldest part of Cairo, with the Mosque of Tulm1 o. 265 ]. On
the same side we next observe the Necropolis of Imam Shaferi
Ly. 327), beyond which is the valley of the Nile, with the various
groups of pyramids rising above it (p. 404 ].

Before reaching (4 M.) Basfitin. a village situated in one of the
angles of a triangular piece of arable land which extends a considerable way into the desert, we perceive the Jew h burial-ground
on the left, and, farther on, the broad Widi et-Tih (p. 339), which
separates the Mokattam range from the Gebel Tum. Traversing a
tract of desert sand, the line approaches the Nile, on which lies the
village of Tara. A little to the right are the large military establishments and gunpowder mills. On the hill stand the ruins of
an old fort.

91/2 M. Ma'sara, a village on the Nile, is noted for the slabs of
stone obtained in the neighbourhood, known as'palattes', and used
for paving purposes in almost every house of the better class in
Egypt. From either Tum or Ma'sars we may visit the Quarries of
Tum (p. 405), which yielded material for the construction of the
ancient temples, and are still worked. Their entrances in the rocks
are visible from the railway. The ride thither occupies 1/2 111., from
Helwin 11/2111. It is advisable to bring good donkeys from Cairo,
as the choice at Helwitn is very limited.

Beyond stat. Ma'gara the line skirts the slopes of the Gebel Tara,
and after ascending a considerable incline reaches the plateau on
which the Baths of Helwzin are situated.

26*



