6 l I.NTElt0Ol'lt8E WITH () RIICNTALR.

N?

generally a puff, or kind of saucer of egg-cup shape. To be passed
over when coffee. is handed round is deemed by the lleduins an
insult of the gravest kind. llaviner emptied his cup, the visitor
must not put it down on the ground, which is contrary to etiquette,
but keep it in his hand until it is taken from him by the servant,
after which he salutes his best in the usual Oriental fashion by
placing his right hand i' on his breast and afterwards raising it to his
forehead, and pronouncing the word'ddimun' (1'. c.'l5ahweh
diiimau', may you never want camel This custom originated
with the llednins, who only regard the persons of their guests as
inviolable after they have eaten or drunk with them. When visited by natives. the European should in his turn regale them
liberally with coffee. It is also usual to offer tobacco to the visitor.
the cigarette being new the ordinary form. The long pipe { shibuw
with amber mouth-piece, and its bowl resting on a brazen plate on
the ground. is more in vogue with the Turks. Visits in the East
must of course be returned as in Europe. Those who return to a
place after an absence receive visits from their acquaintances before
they are expected to call on them.

Europeans, as a rule, should never enquire after the wives of a
Muslim, his relations to the fair sex being sedulously veiled from
the public. Even looking at "onion in the street or in a house is
considered indecorous, and may in some cases be attended with
danger. Intimate acquaintance with Orientals is also to be avoided,
disinterested friendship being still rarer in the East than elsewhere.
lleneath the interminable protestations of friendship with which the
traveller is overwhelmed, lurks in most cases the demon of cupidity,
the sole motive of those who use them being the hope of some
gain or hakshish. The best way of dealing with persons who'do
protest too mueh' is to pay for every service or civility on the spot,
and as far as possible to "the price of every article beforehand, a
plan which is usually effectual in limiting their mercenary designs.

(In the other hand the most ordinary observer cannot fail to be
struck with the fact that the degraded rnffianism so common in the
most civilised countries is unknown in Egypt. The people of the
country, even the poorest and the entirely uneducated, often possess
a native dignity, and gracefulness of manner, of which
the traveller's own countrymen of a far more favoured class are
sometimes utterly destitute. Notwithstanding their individual selllshness, too, the different native communities will be. observed to
hold together with remarkable faithfulness, and the bond of a
common religion. which takes the place of'party' in other countries, and requires its adherents to address each other as'y4
rrkluiyu' (my brother). is far more than a more name.

-l- The Til'lll hand in alone used in greeting and as much 21.9 possible
I" cating, titruking the beard, and the like, the left hand being reserved
for less honourable functions.



