406 Route .1. BARRAGE DU NIL. Environs

of soft limestone, without inscriptions, were found in a sand-hill
in the neighbourhood, belonging probably to a burial-place of the
quarrymen of the Pharaohs.

These quarries were also worked during the Ptolemaio and Roman
periods; and Strabo, who was generally well-informed, states that the
quarries which yielded the stone used in building the pyramids lay on
the Arabian bank of the Nile. He says that they were excavated in a
very rocky mountain, called "the Trojan", and that near them and the
Nile lay the village of Troja,'an ancient residence of captive Trojans
who had followed Menelaus to Egypt and remained there'. Diodorus
gives the same account of the foundation of the Egyptian Troja, but adds
that Ctesias has a different version of it. Both authors were probably
misled by the statement of Herodotus, that Menelaus was hospitably received in Egypt when returning home with Helen from the siege of Troy.
There is, however. little doubt that the village called Troja by these
authors is the modern Tara, which had no connection whatever with
the city of Priam. Inscriptions dating from the ancient empire and
others of the later monarchy, found in the quarries themselves, inform
us that the ancient name of the place was Ta-ro-fu, or more recently
Ta-roue, or region of the wide rock-gateway, whence the stone of the
pyramids was obtained. This name was corrupted by the Greeks to
'Trojan, and as prisoners of state and of war, including many Asiatics,
were chiefly employed in the quarries, it was not unnatural to suppose
that the colony of quarrymen at the foot of the hill was a settlement of
captive Trojans. Several slabs of rock bearing figures and hieroglyphic:
have been found in one of the great rocky halls of Tum. One of these
represents King Amenophis 111. (18th Dynasty) sacrificing to the gods
Amman, Horus, and Hersheft; and on the other we find him worshipping
Amman accompanied by Anubis, Sekhet, and Hathor. The inscription
under the first slab (with which that on the second is nearly identical)
runs thus from the second line onwards: -'His Majesty ordered new
halls (helm) to he opened, for the purpose of quarrying the light- -coloured
and excellent stone of An for the construction of his buildings founded
for perpetuity, after His Majesty had found that the halls orRuruHTroja)
had been tending to great decay since the time of those who had existed
at the beginning (ta. former generations). These were newly established
by His Majesty". - Another inscription, of the time of Nestanehus IL,









runs thus: -'This excellent quarry of Rufu was opened in order to construct the temple ot Thoth the twice great, the double Aperu, the
commander of the divine speech, etc.... May (its) continuance be everlasting!'

The Barrage da Nil.

RAILWAY. As a train runs from the Jhtlttli; ed-Dakror station
(p. 924) to (12 M.) Et-Menashi (p. 925), the station for the
larrago, in the evening only, and returns on the following morning, travellers cannot visit the Manage by this line in one day.
They will therefore find it more convenient to take a train on the
Cairo and Alexandria line as far as (9 M.) I (I. 227); fare
ff pias. tariff 30, 4 piss. 20, or 2 pins. 30 paras; donkeys and
attendants, see p. 933- departure of the trains, see p 923 Donkeys may be hired at 1falytsb; but, as the saddles are bad, the short
ride to the Barrage (11/4 hr.) is often uncomfortable George Palm
keeps a tolerable restaurant in the bazaar of the village near the
Barrage.

Permission to inspect the works connected with the Barrage

,






