of Cairo. BARRAGE DU NIL. f Route. 407

must he obtained from the minister of war through the traveller's
consulate.

The barrier, which consists of a huge bridge with lock-gates, built
across the the Nile at the S. extremity of the Delta, about 12 M.
below Cairo, dates from the time of the energetic Mohamrned'Ali
and was constructed from the plans of a French engineer named
Monget-Bey.

Fortifications of considerable strength were constructed here by
Sam Pasha for the purpose of arresting the progress of any invading army, and storing munitions of war. The place was therefore
called Karat Sa'idZyeh (Sa'id's Castle), but is now known as'Kunatir' (bridges).

The object of the Barrage was to keep the water of the Nile at
the same level in all seasons, so that the necessity for irrigation
machinery throughout the district below it would have been entirely
superseded, while those fields to the S. of it which are on a level
with the reservoir would also have benefited. The Barrage was also
intended to remove the difficulties of navigation below this point
during the three months when the Nile is at its lowest. During
that period the water is too shallow for large vessels, and even
small vessels are often impeded by shoals and shifting sandbanks;
and it was therefore proposed that the whole of the communication
by water should then be kept up by means of large canals.

The first trial of the Barrage was unsuccessful, when the gates
were closed to retain the water, part of the work gave way and it
was hastily concluded that the whole undertaking was a costly
failure. For the next twenty years the Barrage was nothing but an
impediment to the navigation, as vessels often take several hours
to effect the passage of the locks, which is sometimes even attended with danger, and have to pay heavy dues. At the beginning of
1883, however, it was carefully tested by two English engineers,
who came to the conclusion that the Barrage might not be so wholly
unfitted for its intended purpose as had been generally taken for
granted. As the Nile fell, they accordinglylowered the gates inch
by inch, and found that no untoward results ensued. On the contrary
the water at the Barrage only fell 10 inches while it fell 57 inches
at Assufin, and the fellahin were enabled to irrigate their fields
without recourse to the expensive steam-pumping apparatus on
which they had previously been dependent. It would, however,
be rash to make a prophecy from the successful experiment of a
single year, and the engineers who conducted it are of the opinion
that an expenditure of QUOOOOL would be necessary to make the
Barrage quite secure. As yet, also, no barrier has been constructed
for the Damietta branch of the Nile; and for the complete success
of the scheme this, of course, would be essential. Comp. the map
of the environs of Cairo, p. 315.



