410 Route 5. ZAKRZIK. From Cairo

411/2 M. Stat. L'ard? n.

47'/. M. ZalrMilr Lhalt of about half-an--hour; good refreshmentroom, with a civil Italian landlord, and tolerable quarters for the
night), a thriving, semi-European town, lies on a branch of the freshwater canal (seeabove) and on the Maize Canal (the ancient Tanite
arm of the Nile, p. 438 ]. It is the capital of the E. province of
Sherlciych and seat of a mudir, and is said to contain about 40,000
inhabitants.

The situation of Zakazik, in the midst of a fertile tract watered
by several canals, and connected with the richest districts of the
Delta, is extremely favourable, and it is a rapidly improving place.
The soil here has been very carefully cultivated since the time of
Mohammed rAli (1826), and Zalrizilr forms the chief centre of the
Egyptian cotton and grain trade. No less than 50,000 tons of
cotton are said to he sold here annually. During the American war
the production of cotton in this district was carried to such an extent as to threaten all other branches of agriculture with extinction,
but a just equilibrium has fortunately been again restored. Many
European merchants have offices here, and the large cotton--factories
give the place an almost European appearance. 7.3mm; is also
important as a railway junction.--In the vicinity, Rear Tell Basta,
lay the ancient Bubastis, or Bubastus (Egyptian Pi-bast; the Pibesetk of Ezekiel xxx. 17), the capital of the Bubastite nome (p. 91).

The ruins of the ancient Bubastis consist of large and dark mounds
of debris, visible from the railway, and situated 3/. M. from the station;
but the place is uninteresting except to those who endeavour to identify
these shapeless remains with the description given by Herodotus (ii. 137,
156) of the town and temple of the Egyptian Artemis (Sekhet, Bast, or
Pasht). The site was re-discovered by Mains. Wherever an ancient
Egyptian town has stood, there are always to be found mounds of
earth, rubbish, and potsherds, which the Arabs call'Kdm'. These mounds
here are of unusual height, recalling the account of the place given by
Herodotus. He informs us that Sabaco, an Ethiopian monarch, who
reigned for 50 years, never caused criminals to be executed, but sent
them back to their native places for the purpose of heaping up rubbish
to raise the height of the sites (which had already been done in the
reign of Ramses 11. ]. The town of Bubastis in particular, which contained the beautiful temple of Bubastis, seems to have been specially
favoured in this respect, so that, if the story is true, the inhabitants
must often have been getting into trouble. It is these mounds which are
visible from the railway, but the'notable temple', of which Herodotus
says that'there are many larger and more costly, but none equal to it
for beauty of form', has entirely disappeared. It was situated on an island, which was connected with the mainland by one approach opposite
the entrance to the temple, and formed by two meets conducted from
the Nile. Each moat was 100 ft. in width, and bordered with trees.'As
the temple stands in the centre of the town", says Herodotus,'it may be
seen from every direction, and, as it remained unaltered when the site
of the town was raised, the spectator overlooks it wherever he may
happen to be. A wall with raised stone-work surrounds it, and another
encloses both the temple. containing the image of the goddess, and a grove
of trees of considerable height. The temple is a stadium in length, and
the same in width From its entrance runs a paved road, three stadia
1" length and 400". in width, towards the E... across the market-place,
and straight to the temple of Hermes. On each side of it rise gigantic










