,

to Sues. BUBASTIS. 5. Route. 41 l

trees.'---- The temple of Sekhet. the goddess revered here, was the most
important of the pilgrimage shrines in Lower Egypt; and the same joyous
and licentious festivals which were celebrated in honour of Hathor at
Dendera also took place here in presence of Bubastis, another form of
Isis Hathor, with similar magnificence and riotousness.'The young men
of Aven (or on, p. 333) and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword', says
Ezekiel (xxx. IT), when speaking of their idolatrous practices. Bubastis
was the Aphrodite of foreigners, the golden Cypris, and also the Artemis
of the Greeks; under the name of East she was the Ashera, and under
that of Sekhet the Ashtaroth, of the Phcenicians (p. 136). The Upper
Egyptians celebrated their joyous festivals at Dendera during the first
half of the month corresponding to our October, and the Lower Egyptians probably held theirs at the same season, and also about the period
of our Christmas, on the 16th Khoiak (Kiahk, or commonly Kiak), the
'very auspicious" day dedicated to the goddess. Bubastis is represented
with the head of a lion or a eat (p. 137). The eat was sacred to her,
and, according to Herodotus, eats are said to have received honourable
burial at Bubastis.

'When the Egyptians travel to Bubastis', says Herodotus,'they do so
in this manner. Men and women sail together, and in each boat there
are many persons of both sexes. Some of the women make a noise with
rattles, and some of the men blow pipes during the whole journey,
while the other men and women sing and clap their hands. If they
pass a town on the way, they lay to, and some of the women land and
shout and mock at the women of the place. While others dance and make
a disturbance. They do this at every town that lies on the Nile; and
when they arrive at Bubastis they begin the festival with great sacrifices. and on this occasion more wine is consumed than during the whole
of the rest of the year. All the people of both sexes, except the children,
make a pilgrimage thither, about 700,000 persons in all, as the Egyptians
assert.'--These ancient festivals are recalled to some extent by the
modern merry-makings at the fair of Tantra (p. 226).

On leaving Zakazik the train runs round the town, into the
market of which we look down on the right. Immediately afterwards
the Mansfira line diverges to the left (p. 438). The fertile tract
which we now traverse is part of the Goshen of the Bible. During
the Turkish regime it fell into a miserable condition, and at the beginning of the century afforded a very scanty subsistence to barely
4000 Arabs; but the cultivation was so rapidly improved by means
of the fresh-water canal that it now supports upwards of 12,000
prosperous farmers and peasants. The Viceroy Sa'id Pasha ceded
this tract to the company of M. de Lesseps, but it was purchased
by his successor Isma'il Pasha for 10 million francs, erected into a
separate province, and garrisoned with cavalry.

The Goshen of the Bible (Egyptian Gosem) is frequently mentioned
by Noses. Thus, in the Book of Genesis (xlv. IO), Pharaoh says to Joseph: -'And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou shalt he
neat- unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children's children, and
thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that thou hast'. Gem. 28, 20
'And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to direct his face unto
Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen. And Joseph made
ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel, his father. to Goshen, and
presented himselt unto him". Gen. xlvii. 5, G :----'And Pharaoh spake
unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy brethren are come unto thee.
The land of Egypt is before thee; in the best of the land make thy father and thy brethren to dwell; in the land of ('rushen let them dwell".
Gen. xlvii. 21: -'And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country
of Goshen; and they had possessions therein, and grew. and multiplied



