412 Route 5. GOSHEN. From C'm'ro

exceedingly'. In a later passage the sacred record mentions the cities in
Goshen in which the Israelites were compelled to work at the tasks imposed on them by Pharaoh. Exodus i. 11 :--'Therefore they did set
over them taskmasters to afflict them with their burdens. And they
built for Pharaoh treasure cities. Lastly, the first
umnpingplaces of the retreating Israelites are enumerated in Numbers

etseg ~11) Ramses, (2) Succoth, 11111 (4) Pi-ha,'which is before B1111 zephen 111d they pitched before Migdol'.
Leaving Pi-hahiroth, they then'passed through the midst of the sea into
the wilderness'.

We thus find that the Bible mentions a considerable number of places belonging to Goshen, and as the sites of several of these have been
identified with the aid of the Egyptian monuments. we are enabled approximately to determine the boundaries of the district, within which
also lay Tell el- Yehiidiyeh fp. 408). 409), and Bubastis (p. 410).
That Goshen lay to the E. of the Delta there can be no doubt, as it was
situated between the residence of the Pharaohs and Palestine, and the
Scriptures make no mention of the Nile having been crossed. This province was afterwards called the Nomos Arabia, or Arabian nome, and
the ancient Egyptian Gosem is spoken of as one of the E. districts of
the empire. The name still survives in that of the town called Km by
the Copes, and "11111 by the Arabs (the ancient I'lmcum, e11111p, 11.11511

The southernmost point of the triangle formed by the land of Goshen
was probably Heliopolis (Matariyeh), whence the district seems to have
extended in a narrow strip as far as BeleS. The S. boundary ran thence,
in the latitude of the present Fresh- Water Canal, as far as Lake I'iur
still. (111 the district was probably bounded by the Tanitic arm
of the Nile, on the N. by Lake Menzaleh, and on the E. by a branch of
the same, as well as by the Balah and Timsfih lakes, which in ancient times were connected by aline of fortifications, and formed a kind
of moat behind the bastions erected for the purpose of warding "the
1111111113 of the warlike tribes of w. Arabia. To the S. of the district of
Goshen extended a desert tract intersected by ranges of hills, ramifying
from the hills which bound the Arabian bank of the Nile. These hills
generally run from w. to E. and attain their greatest height in the
rhtilta lite, which command the N. w. shore of the Gulf of Suez. It is
probable that the Jews, who settled in Goshen as shepherds, and afterwards appear as inhabitants of the towns in that region, were compelled
to assist in the cultivation of the soil, which seems to have attained a
high state of perfection at that period. Several records written on papyrus by Egyptian officials about that epoch are still preserved. They
describe the charms of the country in the most vivid colours, stating
that life there was'sweet', and that the soil yielded all kinds of crops
in abundance. In a papyrus preserved at Leyden the writer, Keniamen,
Writes the following report to his superior Ilui, an important official
under the Pharaoh of the oppression (111111513 11.) - "Ilhererure 1heerd
the message of the eye (an official title) of my master, saying: Give corn
to the Egyptian soldiers, and to the Hebrews who polish stones for the
construction of the great store-houses (hekhcnnu) in the city of Ramses',
etc. - The Israelites were doubtless also employed in the construction
of the new canals which converted the sterile land into a smiling agricultural tract, affording abundant subsistence both to man and beast, so
that it is not surprising that the emigrants fondly remembered the "fleshpots of Egypt'.Pithom, where the Israelites made bricks, probably lay,
as mentioned below, near Amt, SulémtU, which is situated to the S. of
the railway between Zalgazilg and Tell el-Kebir, and near which there is
a small lake. Farther on, near the ruin-covered hill of 1111121111, are
several muddy ponds, which contain a considerable volume of water during the inundation, and are probably identical with the'ltarkabota'
('1'2'73 } OI? pends of Pithom, mentioned in a papyrus of Anastasi VI. f



t Aeeurding tn lirugSch, who relies on the geographical and topo


