to Suez. TELL EL-KEBIR. Route a 413

Another scene of the forced Israelitish labour was Ramses, which has
been identified by Lepsius with the ruins of Tell e1~Maskhfita (see
below), while Brugsch and others suppose it to have been Tanis-Zoz'in,
the modern San (see remark, p. 452). The environs of these towns were
richly cultivated, while another part of Goshen was, as at the present
day, of a sterile character, and probably suitable for pasturage at certain
seasons only. In this E. province of the empire the Egyptian element
of the population preponderated in the towns only. On the coast were
settled Phoenician colonists, and the desert tracts bounding and extending into the cultivated land were occupied by Bednins, living in tents,
as at the present day; while the marshes in the region around Lake Meir
zaleh were peopled by cowherds, as to whose Semitic origin the monuments afiord conclusive evidence. The higher culture of the Egyptians
would doubtless in many cases influence and attract these strange, but
the constant influx of immigrants from the vast neighbouring Sum c
countries of Asia would on the other hand seriously impede the progress
of civilisation in this part of the empire. Down to the present day the
character of the population of the N. and E. parts of the land of Goshen
has remained nearly the same as in ancient times. The European merchants represent the aneient thnicians, the Beduius who haunt the
sterile regions are the wandering Semites of antiquity, and the peculiar
inhabitants of the Menzaleh region (p. 452) are similar to the primitive
pastoral population.

Beyond C50 M.) stat. Aha Hammad, on the left, begins the
Arabian desert, which is here an undulating sandy plain with
scanty desert vegetation. It is intersected in an easterly direction
by the fertile Wtali Tt2mililt and the fresh-water canal, which present a striking contrast to their surroundings. On the right, beyond
the canal, stretches a beautiful green tract of country, beyond
which rise the hills of the desert.

66 M. Stat. Tell cl-chtr, an insignificant place, which lately
attained celebrity as the scene of Arabi's defeat by the British
troops in 1882. It lays claim to the honour ofoccupying the site of
the Pithom of the Bible; but that city must have Min more to the
S', W., on the site of the present Tell Ald 8uttmtm (see above).
On leaving Tell el-Kebir the train passes a cemetery laid out by the
English, with a tasteful monument to the British soldiers who fell
in the struggle with Arabi. A little farther on a tower and a palace
come in eight

80 M. Stat. Mahsameh possesses the remains of a monument
which probably belonged to one of the cities of Ramses where the







graphical information afforded by the monuments, mum Was situated in
the Sethroitic Nome. between the Pelusiac and Tanitic arms of the Nile.
This district, according to the inscriptions, also bore the Semitic name
of Suki'6t ('tents'), which it doubtless derived from the nomadic life led
by its Semitic shepherd inhabitants, who from a very early period had
been permitted by the Pharaohs to pasture their tlocks there. Classic
authors state that Heracleopolis Parva (see pp. 87, 453) was the capital
of this name, while the monuments mention Pi-torn as its capital. The
identification of the site of Pithom is farther facilitated by the fact
that the ancient itineraries place it on the route from Pelusium to
Tanis (p. 452), exactly halfway between these places. The surrounding
country was covered with lakes and marshes, and was intersected by
canals in every direction. At the present day the district is half desert
and half swamp, and it is traversed by the canal between Port sh'id .thd
Fal-riau.taru.










