TOBACCO 27

While much caution and firmness are desirable in dealing with
the people, it need hardly be added that the traveller should avoid
being too exacting or suspicious. He should bear in mind that
many of the natives with whom he comes in contact are more
children, whose waywardness should excite compassion rather than
anger, and who often display a touching simplicity and kindliness
of disposition. He should, moreover, do his utmost to sustain the
well established reputation of the'kilmeh frengiyeh', the'word of a
Frank', in which Orientals are went to place implicit confidence.

(16 ]. Tobacco.

Cigar-smokers will find it very difficult to become accustomed
to the Oriental tobacco, but they will find tolerable cigar-shops at
Alexandria and Cairo, most of which have been established quite
recently. As a general rule smokers are recommended to carry with
them, both in going to and returning from Egypt, as little tobacco
as possible, especially if they travel by the overland route, as a
rigorous search is often made and a heavy duty exacted, both at
the Egyptian, and at the French, Austrian, and Italian frontiers.
Travellers returning to England direct, with their luggage booked
through, are allowed half-a-pound of tobacco or cigars free of English duty, or they may bring three pounds on payment of the duty
(58. per 1b. ] and a small fine.

Tobacco (dulchdn) is kept in good condition by covering it with
a moist cloth, with which, however, it must not come in contact.
Strong (Mmi) or mild (barid) may be asked for according to taste.
Stambfili is a long and fine cut tobacco, the best qualities of which
(40-60 fr. per oklga = 2 lbst 111/201.) come from Roumelia and Anatolia, and the inferior from the Greek islands. The Syrian tobacco
(15-90 h. per okka ], which is out less regularly, and contains parts
of the stalk, is considered less drying to the palate than the Turkish. It is of two kinds, the [ cm-rim", or light-brown, and the gebcli,
or dark-brown, a mixture of which may be used. The latter, which
derives its colour from being dried in the smoke of resinous woods,
is known in Europe as'Latakia', from the region of N. Syria where
it is chiefly grown [ Ladikiyeh ], but that name is not applied to it
in the East. The native Egyptian tobacco [ dukhdn beledi, or althglur,
green tobacco) is of very inferior quality (about 15 piastres tariff
per ohka) The natives often gather the leaves from the Eeded
dry them in the sun, rub them to pieces, and smoke the Bonn
fresh. Tumbdlc, or Persian tobacco, is used in a Dlfiier of Agys:
(lition in the long nargftehs or water-pipes only, 311015 of their warf particular kind of charcoal. The smoke of thesin the long run to
into the lungs...., monarch for their
The stems of these pipes, with their decoration of the Mahornalone are of native manufacture. The reservorrs reatens to entail
mouth-pieces are imported from Europe, chiefly frov

s of their war
Egypt proper.



