416 Route ti'. SUEZ.

frequently offered for sale to travellers as curiosities. The prices demanded are usually exorbitant, but may be reduced by bargaining.

The gfothev-of-Peavl Shells (sadaf) of the Red Sea form an important
article of commerce, but, owing to the undue extent to which the
fishery has recently been carried, the yield has greatly fallen off. The
Beduins of the coast, who train slaves as divers, carry on the fishery
during the summer. The price of the shells averages 12-15 piastrcs tariif
_ a 121/11111), varying according to the size. The largest of the shells
are rarely more than two pounds in weight, and the finest are apt to be perforated by worms, in which case they are valueless. The principal mart
on the Red Sea for mother-of-pearl and pearls is Jedda (p. 11231, the
seaport of Mecca. Pearls may sometimes be purchased direct from the
Deduins or their slaves, but they ask more than the pearls are worth in
Europe, 4-5 fr. being often demanded for one of small size. The small
discoloured pearls, though valueless, are also frequently offered for sale.
The Arabs grind them down, and prepare an eye-salve from the powder.

Another common bivalve is the busr (Trtdacna gigas), a huge kind of
clam-shell. The indigestible flesh, called utumbrik' is dried and sold
in the markets as an article of food. This shell also yields pearls, but
they are dull and worthless.

Among the univalves the most important is the 13121:, a kind of whelk,
which the { 11111, or conjurer at fairs, uses as a horn. Large and unstained
specimens are rare, costing 21 fe, each. Other large varieties of the
same species are of less value. A very common shell-fish is the large
gemel or abil sub'da (Pterocems lambis), which has six long fingerlike projections; its flesh is also dried and sold as sm'zlmbctlc (see
above). The divers frequently bring up specimens of the large malta
(Cassis cornuta) 1 which is of a stone-grey colour externally, and covered
with a thick yellow substance at the mouth, in which cameos may be
cut. The mum, or cowry, or'porcelain shell' as it is sometimes called
fr'ypizcea), and the morsd'a, or cone--shell (Callus), are very abundant and
rarely worth more than a few paras each. A small white cowry is used
in the'troll-madam' game. A small black-and-yellow striped cowry
(0olumbella mendicaria), known as the sile'm, is sometimes exported to
the 511111111. where it is used instead of small coin. The glossy 1111111121
(New-Na polita), which is often found on the sea-shore, is sometimes used
for the same purpose. One of the prettiest shells of the Red Sea is the
abundant small pink wm'da'n or silesfifu (Monoclonal Pharaonis) with its
black and white 111111111, Among other shells frequently otl'ered for sale
are the shear, with its long spines, the gilrrirt (Olive), the long conical
mirzmd, or screw shell (Terebra), the large and thin Dolium, and the 1111111
1111110115, or ear-shell. The nehéd, or top shell (Trachus), and the sat-" a
(Turbo) are sometimes polished with muriatie acid so as to resemble
mother-of-pearl, and are used for ornamental purposes. Black coral, or
yusr, which realises a high price, is used for the manufacture of rosaries, pipe mouthpieces, and ornaments. The purple dent el akhwdn, or
organ coral, is sometimes used as a dye, and the blocks of the porous
coral (Parties) for building purposes. Other kinds of coral, or stony
zoophytes, known as sha'ab, bleached perfectly white, are frequently
seen in the shops. They sometimes resemble roses, trees, leaves, and
bulbous growths. The traveller should, if possible, make a. point of seeing
the "*SUBAQUEDUS CORAL FoRMATIoNS, which resemble a scene from
fairyland. A boat is taken in calm weather as far as the slope of the
coral reef of Sha'ah Which skirts the shore. The coral in the immediate
vicinity of Sue is not so fine as some of the formations a little farther
oC. Those who are interested in marine zoology should walk along the
111113 at low tide, when they will find thousands of curious shell-fish and
zoophytes in the 11111111, under the stones, and on the bench They may
also amuse themselves by gathering edible mussels, limpets, and seaurchins, and watch the eccentric movements of the 11111.1. A visit to the
FISH-NARKET is also recommended, where the curious and brightly
coloured members of the tinny tribe are seen to far better advantage than
in a museum. The singular .looking ball-fish (p. 84) is often stuffed and






