SUEZ. ti. Route. 417

offered for sale. A large crab, known as the bin! mum er-rubbers, which
is caught on the shore by moonlight without difficulty, is esteemed a
delicacy. The tortnise-shell yielded by the loggerhead turtle, and the
thick skin of the gild, or dugong (Helical-e cetacea), form considerable
articles of commerce. According to some authorities the Jewish ark of
the covenant was covered with dugong leather.

HISTORY OF SUEZ Little is known regarding the ancient history of
Sues. A town mentioned for the first time by Lucian under the name
of Klysma, or K'let'sma, seems to have occupied this site at a very early
period. It was a fortified place, and the special task of the garrison
was to protect and maintain the old isthmus-canal completed by Darius
(p. 427). Ptolemaeus calls the place Clysma Pyaesidium, but places it
much farther to the S. During the supremacy of the Arabians, who reopened the old canal for a short time (p. 428), the town was named
Kolzum 0r Kolzimt After the 8th cent. it seems to have sunk into
insignificance, but it is mentioned by Ahdulfida as the starting-point for
Tur (p. 515) .--The chief historical interest attaching to the place lies
in the fact that it is usually supposed to he close to the point where the
Israelites crossed the Red Sea (comp. pp. M, 483).

Suez, a town with 11,170 inhab., lies at the head of the gulf
of that name, one of the N. extremities of the Red Sea, and to
the S.W. of the mouth of the Suer. Canal. On the W. it is commanded by the picturesque blue heights of the'Atilia Mts., and
on the E. by hills belonging to the Asiatic coast range. Before the
construction of the great work of M. de Lesseps, Suez was a miserable Arabian village, with 1500 inhab. at most.

"The place', says Dr. Schweinfurth in 1861,'still consists of confused
groups of miserable mud hovels, and ruinous, half-European buildings of
lath and plaster. On the quay rises the one » storied block of the English
hotel, in front of which are the iron railway shed, a few warehouses,
and the consulates of the western powers. Such is the poverty » stricken
appearance of the town, where moreover a deathlike stillness prevails,
notwithstanding the fact that three different quarters of the globe join
hands over its walls. Not a tree, not a spring, not even the meagre
saltwort, or a trace of vegetation of any kind. is to be seen on the
extensive and flat coast or anywhere in the environs of the town. The
blue of the sky and the sea, where half-a-dozen steamers and a few sailing vessels are lying at anchor, the only relief to the eye of the
spectator.'

To this day the town presents a very dreary appearance, and
its trade has again greatly fallen off, the stimulus given to it by
the opening of the canal and the large docks having apparently
been transient. Neither the Arabian quarter with its seven insignificant mosques, nor the streets of the European quarter, which contain several buildings and warehouses of considerable size, present
any attraction. The Arabian bazaar is unimportant, but at the
entrance to it are stalls of beautiful shells and coral from the Red
Sea, for which exorbitant prices are asked (comp. p. 416 ]. Near
the Suez Hotel are several stalls where Chinese articles are sold.

On a mound of debris to the N. of the towny not far from the
station and the magazines of the'Peninsular and Oriental Steam
Navigation Company', is a kiosque of the Khedive, commanding a
fine view of the mountains of the peninsula of Sinai, the sea, the
harbour, and the town. The hill is called by the Arabs hmm el-'OtTum, and was probably the site of the ancient Kolzum (see above).

BAEDEKER'S Egypt 1. 2nd Ed. 27






