'AIN m) su. 6. Route. 419

is the Waghorn Quay, bearing a Statue of Lieutenant Waghorn,
an enterprising Englishman, who after having spent the best years
of his life in establishing regular communication between England
and India via Egypt, died in London in poverty in 1850. M. de
Lesseps has placed a French inscription to his memory on the W.
side of the monument.

The large basin farther S., which has been named Port Ibn'ihim, and is capable. of containing 50 vessels of the largest size,
is divided by massive bulwarks into two parts, one for vessels of
war, and the other for the mail steamers and trading vessels.

The mouth of the dock is protected by gates. The masonry is
everywhere admirably constructed, particularly that of the massive
breakwater outside the doc The dry dock is 123 yds. long,
25 yds. wide, and 29 ft. in depth.

On the E. side of these docks are stakes and buoys indicating the
entrance to the Suez Canal (p. 431), which is at a considerable distance from the N. extremity of the gulf. (Small boat, see p. 410.)

The Springs of Moses, Arabic'Ain ol.'Ayt'm) Mesa, lie on
the E. side of the gulf, about 7%; M. to the S.S.E. of Suez, or
4%) I. from the new docks. (Boats and donkeys, see p. 415.)
The whole of the route thither by land traverses the sand of the
desert, skirting the sea, which lies to the right. Towards the W.
tower the imposing'Attica Mts. (p. 415), which present a most
picturesque appearance on the return route. To the left rise
the yellowish ranges of the Gebel er-hhtlja, belonging to the long
chain of the Gebel et-Tih, and facing the S.E. We are now
traversing Asiatic soil, while at the same time the eye ranges over
part of the African continent.

'Ut this point, as at the Hellespont, two different quarters of the
globe adjoin each other; but, instead of Europe, we here have the
greater continent of Africa lying to the W. of Asia. The meeting of
these two neighbours here. however, is of a very different character.
While Europe and Asia salute each other across the Bosphorus and Hellespont, adorned with verdant robes and crowned with laurel, as if about
to vie with each other in a peaceful contest of song, Asia and Africa
seem to scowl at each other across the Red Sea like wrestlers who have
divested themselves of their garments and are on the point of entering
the lists to fight a fierce battle for the sovereignty of the world. On the
African side the'Atalia Mts. present a bold and menacing appearance,
while the dreary desert of Asia, situated among the Gebel er--Raha, bids
defiance to its lofticr adversary'. (Schubert)

Those who make the excursion by water need hardly be reminded
of the profound historical interest attaching to this part of the
Red Sea.

'This is the scene of Pharaoh's attempted passage. and these waves
were once ploughed by the ships of King Hiram and King Solomon,
which every three years brought gold from Ophir, and ivory, ebony, and
incense, to the harbours of Elath and Ezion-Geber. Here, too, once plied
the light Moorish vessels mentioned in the Old Testament, and similar
to the craft now used by the Indo-Arabians. From this point the Phoenician mariners employed by King Nacho began their famous circumnavigation of Africa about the year B.C. 600, and at a later period enter
27*



