'AIN MoSA. 0. Route. 421

he visits the mound marked by a solitary palm, about IO min. to
the SE. of the gardens (view),

The temperature and character of these springs vary. They range
from 70° to 810 Fahm and while some of them are quite drinkable and
but slightly brackish, others are very bitter and nauseous to the taste
The springs rise in the midst of gardens, where the natural hillocks have
been levelled, in funnel-shaped basins, within which the water wells
up from numerous small holes, and every new hole the visitor makes
with his stick becomes the source of a new spring. The natural
condition of the springs, however, is more satisfactorily observed in
the desert, outside of the opuntia enclosure. About a thousand paces
to the E. of the oasis stands a solitary palm, at the foot ofa hillock rising
about 16 ft. above the level of the plain. On the top of this hillock is a
pool, 4ft. in diameter and 1yzft. in depth. The water, 70" in temperature, is very salt and bitter, and the bottom of the pool is covered with
inky-black mud. The discharge of the spring forms a stream 34 inches
in width, which, however, is soon swallowed up by the desert sand at the
foot of the hill. Numerous water-beetles, which clung to the hand when
touched, the Melanin fasciolata Oliv. which seemed to luxuriate in the
tepid water, and, as I was much pleased to see, myriads of transparent
water-fleas (Cypris deleeta Miill0 disported themselves in the basin. In
the hollow of my hand I caught dozens of them, which swam about for
a time with their fringed feelers, and at length got ashore. I next observed in the mud the innumerable transparent scales of dead insects,
and I at length discovered that the rock enclosing the hill was entirely
composed of Cypris skins. It was now obvious that the Cyprides had
built the hill. Millions of these little insects had in the course of ages
cemented with their calcareous integuments the sand through which the
springs rise, thus at length forming a kind of wall around it; and when
the surface was in this way raised beyond the height to which the pressure of the water forced the springs some of them were entirely shut "
and compelled to seek some other outlet.... The pressure of the
water evidently comes from the Bahah nits, although they are 1014 miles
distant.... Had it not been for this organic life, and particularly that
of the Cyprides, which gradually walled in the channels of the springs
with their remains, so that the surface of the water is at some places
40-50ft. above the level of the desert, and 100m above the level of the
sea, these waters would simply have been lost among the sands of the
desert." (O. Frans.)

Conchologists (p. 416) will find a number of interesting shells
on the beach at low tide, but the best places are farther b

Unless the traveller is bound for Mt. Sinai, he will probably
not extend his journey farther in this direction. To some of our
readers, however, the following brief description of the Red Sea
and its shores will not be unacceptable

The Red Sea and its Coasts (by Dr. ('. B. Klmizinger; comp. Map,
p. 30). The Red Sea, Arab. El miy. e! Ahmm', or Balu- 211112de, the
ancient Sinus Arabians, is an arm of the sea extending from the Indian
Ocean towards the NI", between Arabia and Africa, to a distance of
11100 miles. It is entered at the S. extremity by the Bib el-Mandeb, a
strait 18 M. only in width. At the broadest part (in 16° N. lat.) it is 221
miles in width. Towards the N. end it gradually contracts, and at
length divides into two arms, the Gulf of'Akaba (Sinus (Sinus Heroapolites; Arab. Balu- Sués, or Bahr Kolzum,
so called after the ancient Klysma). The sea averages 400000 and is at
places 1000 fathoms in depth, but the shores are flanked with a network
.of subterranean coral reefs and islands, which often extend a long way
from the coast. These reefs render the navigation of this sea very dangerous, particularly at the narrower parts of it, the most dreaded point
being the so-culled Bat.w Far" flu (p. 488), near Tm. The course of the










