lo

(171. Post and Telegraph Offices.

The EGYPTIAN POSTAL SYSTEM is admirably organised in all the
principal towns, and now also in many smaller ones. The officials,
who are very civil, are often Italians. The addresses ofletters destined for Egypt should always be written very distinctly (particularly
the initial letters), and they had better he directed to the hotel at
which the traveller intends to stay, or to the consulate. Registered
letters are not delivered to the person whose address they bear
unless he gets a resident to testify to his identity. The forwarding
of letters up the Nile or elsewhere in the interior may be entrusted
to the landlord of the hotel. The General Post Office for the whole
of Egypt is at Alexandria. Postage-stamps, hearing a sphinx and
a pyramid, are issued at 5, 10 and 20 paras, and at l, 2, 21/2 and
5 tariff piastres. There are letter-boxes in the streets and at the
hotels of the principal towns. Egypt is now a member of the Postal
Union, and the postage for letters within Egypt and to other countries in the union is 1 piastre tariff for every 50 grammes 01/201"),
and for book-packets 10 paras for the same weight. Post-cards cost
20 paras. Parcels not exceeding 61/2 lbs. in weight may be sent to
the countries of the union for 11 piastres tariff. Post-office orders,
see p. 3

The EGYPTIAN TELEGRAPH SYSTEM, the various lines of which
are about 3750 English miles in length, extends northwards as far
as Palestine, and southwards along the Nile toliltartim, a town at
the confluence of the Blue and White Nile, whence a line diverges
to Kassala, and another by liordofan to Dar-Fin (comp. Map,
p. 30). All the larger towns in theDelta have telegraph--offices,
and even the Faytun is included in the system. Telegrams to Alexandria, Cairo, lsma'iliya, Port Sa'id, and Finer, may be sent in
English, French, or Italian, hut Ambit: must be used for messages
to all the smaller stations. Within Egypt the Egyptian telegraph
must he used (5 piastres tariff per 10 words), but telegrams to
Europe should be sent by the English wires, via Malta, and certainly not by the Egyptian, via Constantinople, a provokingly dilatory route. The following is the tariff of the English telegraph:
each word (not exceeding ten letters; if longer, it is reckoned as
two words) to Austria, 1* raut'e or Germany Ce, tu.; to Italy 10. 511.; to
Ame'mica 21.211.

L18) Weights and Measures.

f Dirhcm 5:91.93 grammes == "--'. -11!' .3 ant.







