424 Route 7. THE ISTHMUS OF SUEZ. From Suez

occasion the French and English consuls were murdered, and the town
was bombarded by the English in consequence.

Farther to the N. lies Yenba', the seaport of Medina, which lies
about 92 M. to the E. of it. 11mbat el-Bafw, situated on the coast, with
about 2000 inhah. only, lies in a sterile region, while the larger town of
Yenbar en-Nakhl, with about 5000 iuhalm situated nearly a day's journey
inland, is surrounded with palms and other vegetation. The chief exports are sheep, hides, honey, and dates. Steamers touch here at the
season of the pilgrimage only. As Yenbaf en-Nakhl is only nominally
under the Turkish supremacy, Europeans cannot safely visit it except
under the protection of one of the principal inhabitants of the place.
Medina, like time, is forbidden ground to Christians.

There are no harbours of note between this point and Suez but ElWejj. opposite liosér, is an important quarantine station. Since the
cholera was brought to Egypt by the Meccan pilgrims in 1865, the quarantine establishment here has been annually fitted up for a month and
a half or two months, at the time of the return of the pilgrims after the
Great Beirfim. Both the caravans travelling by land, and vessels of every
nation from Arabian ports, must undergo quarantine here for live days,
or for a longer period if the outbreak of an epidemic is apprehended.
While the quarantine lasts, Wejj presents a very busy appearance. The
great Mecca caravan, which travels viii'Algaba, passes this way both in
going and coming. The town itself has 600300 inhab. only, a castle built
by Sultan Selim, with a garrison of a few soldiers, a spring of fresh
water, and, as the latter is insufficient during the quarantine season, a
steam engine for the distillation of sea-water. - The N. part of the
Arabian coast, as far as El-Wej ie under the supremacy of Egypt.

7. From Suez to Port said. The Suez Canal.

BETWEEN SEE ], AND lsnu'iLiYA there is no regular steamboat service
on the Canal; but large steamers traverse it daily on their route to Indie
and China, and in one of these a passage may generally be obtained
by applying to the agent of the company, to whom an introduction
may he obtained through the traveller's consult The usual charge for
the trip is 10 fr., besides which food must he paid for in accordance
with the steward's tariff. The vessels of the Messageries Moritimes
(p. to), however issue cabin tickets for the whole trip from Suez to
Port Sa'id for 106 fr., including food and wine.

The S. part of the Canal, from Suez to Isma'iliya, including the
Bitter Lakes and the entrance to Lake Tims'ah, is the more interesting.
The steamers generally make a very short stay at Sues, where a small
boat must be hired by the passenger who desires to land, but they halt
at Port Se'id for at least 578 hrs. to coal, and lay to at the quay, so that
passengers can walk ashore. The passage from Suez to Port Sa'id occupics 16 hrs. (see below), but it now and then happens that vessels run
aground, in which case part of the cargo has to be discharged, and a
detention of several days takes pie

The deck of the large steamers atl'ords a good survey of the surrounding country, but from the small steamboats which ply regularly between
Isma'iliya and Port Saiid the passenger cannot see beyond the embankments of the Canal.

RAILWAY FROM SUEZ TO ISAIA'tLim, see p. 414; a train starts daily at
9.15 a.m., arriving at 11.33 a m. (fares u pias. [ 0, 29 pias. 20, 17 pus.
30 paras). Fnon IsnA'iLirA To Pom Sa'io a small Egyptian steamer runs
every evening, starting about 5 o'clock, after the arrival of the train from
Cairo and Alexandria, and arriving at Port Sa'id about midnight [ fare
2W2 fr.). A small screw-steamer belonging to the Canal Company also
runs every alternate day from Ismariliya to Port. t'id mire 11w- fr.-, the
additional 5 fr. charged by the other steamers are paid by them to the
Canal Company as a tax). None of these steamers accommodate more than






