' to Port Sa'id. THE ISTHMUS OF SUEZ. 7. Route. 425

2025 passengers. A place on deck should be secured, if possible. The
passage from Isma'iliya to Kantara (p. 435), where a halt of 1/2-3/; hr. is
made for refreshments, occupies 21/2 his, and thence to Port Sa'id ave us.,
or about 61/2 hrs. in all. As already mentioned, the large steamers take
16 hrs. to perform the passage between Sues and Port Sa'id, Ismaiiliya
being about half way. They are not allowed to steam at greater speed,
as their wash would injure the embankments.

The Canal is 160 kilometres (100 M.) in length. and the E. bank is
furnished with posts at intervals of 5 kilometres. Near the stations,
which generally consist of a few wooden huts only, are passing
places for the large steamers' and'Gare du Sud'
respective!. The Canal is about 26 ft. in depth, thus admitting vessels
drawing 24-25 ft. of water. The surface varies in breadth from 65 to
120 yds., while the width of the bottom is about 24 yds. only, The dues
amount to 10 fr. per ton, 10 fr. for each passenger, and 10-20 fr. for pilotage according to the tonnage of the vessel. The use of the Canal is open
to vessels of all nationalities.

The Isthmus of Suez, a narrow neck of land which connects
Africa with Asia, is at its narrowest part 701/2 M. in width. On
the h side it is washed by the N. part of the Gulf of Sue: (Arab.
Bohr Kolzum, Greek Heroopolite Bay), the western of the two
arms of the Red Sea which separate Africa and Asia. The Isthmus
is a low-lying tract of land, the S. part of which may be regarded
as a kind of continuation of the gulf. About halfway across it rises
an eminence about 50 ft. in height, called El-Gisr (the'threshold',
p. 434 ], and dividing it into two nearly equal parts. Within the
S. half, and adjoining this barrier, .lies Lake Timsfih, or the Grocodile Lake (p. 43-1), a little to the W. of which begins the Widi
Tttrntlit (p. 413), a transverse valley, traversed by the Fresh Water
Canal, and now partly cultivated. Farther S. we come to a belt
of sand-hills in the region known as the Serapeum (p. 433), about
10 M. in width, and beyond them to the Bitter Lakes (p. 433),
consisting of a large and a smaller basin Before the construction
of the Canal the deepest part of these lakes, the bottom of which
was covered with an incrustation of salt, was 9-1 ft. below the
average level of the Red Sea. In 1856, before the water of the Mediterranean was introduced into the lakes, they covered an area of
141/2 sq. miles. letween them and the Red Sea extends a desert
tract, 12/. M. in width, and 21/? ft. only above the level of that
sea. To the N. of the barrier of El-Gisr lies Lake Balah, or the
Date Lake (p. 435), a little beyond which is Lake Menzaleh
(p. 435 ], originally a shallow sheet of'water, extending a long way
to the W., as far as the Damietta arm of the Nile, and separated
from the Mediterranean by a narrow strip of land only, in which
there are now four openings. By the second opening from the E.
the harbour of Port Sa'id has been constructed. The numerous
ruins which have been discovered below the surface of this lake
indicate that its site was once cultivated land, sprinkled with a
number of towns (p. 435).

At a very remote period the Red Sea and the Mediterranean
were probably connected, or at all events the former extended as








