426 Route 7. THE ISTHMUS OF SUEZ. From Sues

far as Lake Timsah, as fossil conchylia, particularly varieties of the
Spondylus, now occurring in the Red Sea, but not in the Mediterranean, have been found there. The isthmus, however, is undoubtedly of very ancient formation, having been as broad at the time
of the journey of Herodotus (B. G. 454) as it is now. With regard
to the formation of the isthmus we may quote the following passage
from M. J. Schleiden: ~
'If we suppose a strait substituted for the isthmus, it is not difficult
to foresee what would happen. The waves of the Red Sea entering it at
one and would soon choke it with sand, while the same result would be
caused on the Mediterranean side by the prevalent N. and N.W. winds, the
Etesian winds of antiquity. About halfway between the seas these different agents would come into collision, and throw up a bar of sand, the
situation of which would naturally be a little to the N. of the central
point, as the action of the waves on the S. side would be more regular
than that of the wind on the N., and thus be generally able to penetrate
farther. This bar would gradually he raised by the action of the waves,
and that at an accelerating rate in proportion as its growth would
present an obstacle to the motion of the water, until its level came to
he above the level of low tide. The surface would then become dry by
exposure to the air. and the loose sand, blown about by the winds,
would form sand-hills of the kind found on every sea-shore. In this
way the connection between the seas would at length be cut off, and the
barrier of El-Gisr formed'.

The Isthmus of Suez has, from a very early period, formed an
important highway between Asia and Africa. A considerable part
of its area was occupied with lakes and swamps, while the higher
points were fortified to prevent the passage of invaders. Near
Pelusium, the'Key of Egypt', at the E. extremity of the curve
formed by the coast of the Delta, to the SE. of Port said,
were situated the passes by which the empire of the Pharaohs
was entered. The high road from Asia skirted the coast of the
Mediterranean, passing Il, p. 478),
traversed the neck of land separating the Sirbouic Lake from the
Mediterranean, and led by Casinm (see below, with the temple
of Jupiter Casius (the mudem lifts el-Kasr0" 0, and by the
town of Gerrha bf, to Pelusium (p. 435), whence several roads di


t The agnomen of Casius is derived by Brugsch from the Semitic
Egyptian word Hazi or Ilazinn' signifying the asylum, or land of the
asylum, a name which applies admirably to a shrine situated on the extreme E. margin of the Egyptian frontier. He also identifies the Baalzuphun of the Bible, which lay "beside Pi-hahiroth' (Exod. xiv. 9), with
this hill and the shrine of Zeus Casius. The word Ba'ulZephon occurs in
a papyrus in the British Museum in the form Battli Zepilna, and is the
Semitic equivalent ('lord of the north') of the Egyptian Amman. Pihahiroth again literally means the'entrance to the reed and papyrus
swamps', by which was doubtless meant the Sirbnuic Luke so that Pihahiroth itself probably lay at the W. end of the lake at the entrance
to the neck of land when approached from Egypt (p.431).

'H' Gem'ha [ plnr. of the Greek gem-hon, a wall, 01' fortified place ] is
identified by Brugsch with Anbu (a word also signifying fortified place),
which is mentioned as early as the 19th Dynasty. This place was called
Shur ['wall'l by the Hebrews (tlen.. l xxv.1s, h'?.
l Sam. xv. 8). The town lay a little to the s.\V eti
mth, which is mentioned above.



