to Port Sand. THE SUEZ CANAL. 7. Route. 427

verged to the interior of the Delta. Three other roads, one from
Mt. Casiust leading to the E., the second from Gerrha, and the
third from Pelusium, converged in the middle of the isthmus (probably near the barrier of E1-Gisr), joining the route leading thence
past the Serapeum and the W. bank of the Bitter Lakes to the ancient
Arsinoe, at the N. end of the Gulf of Suez. The Mediterranean
was thus connected with the Red Sea by an overland route at a
very early period. After the powerful monarchs of Thebes had expelled the Hyksos and subjugated a great part of the W. side of the
continent of Asia, the coast districts of S. Arabia, and many islands and maritime towns of the Mediterranean, Seti I. and
Ramses II. (p. 90), the great and warlike princes of the 19th Dynasty, became desirous of establishing communication by water
between the Nile and the Red Sea in order that their navies and
merchantmen might thus pass between the latter and the Mediterranean. This project was probably carried out as early as the
reign of Seti L, as a representation of his time on the outer N.
wall of the great banquet hall of Karnak (see vol. ii. of the Handbook), elucidated by inscriptions, informs us that, on his victorious
return from Asia, Seti had to traverse a canal U41 lentil, or'the
cutting') swarming with crocodiles (so that it must have communicated with the Nile), and defended by bastions, the names of
which distinctly indicate that it must have been situated on the
frontier of the empire. The construction of the canal is, moreover,
attributed by many ancient authors, including Herodotus, Aristotle,
Strabo, and Pliny, to Sesostris (Seti I. and Ramses 11. ]. The canal may possibly have led from Lake Timsah to Pelusium, and thus
have connected the two seas directly. Blocks bearing the names of
Ramses I., Seti L, and Ramses 11., found near Kantara (p. 435),
seem to favour this conjecture. At a much later period, after Seti's
canal had probably been obliterated owing to neglect, Pharaoh
Nekho (p. 9'2) undertook to construct a canal between the Nile
and the Red Sea. The new canal quitted the Nile at Bubastis
(p. 410), and entered the Arabian Gulf near the ancient Patnmos.
No fewer than 120,000 Egyptians perished while engaged in
the work, and the king afterwards abandoned the work, as
he was informed by the oracle that the barbarians alone would
profit by the work. By the'barbarians' were chiefly meant the
Phoenicians, whose fleets at that time commanded both the Mediterranean and the Red Sea. The canal was probably completed,
after the conquest of Egypt by the Persians, by Darius, the son of
Hystaspes, the great organiser of the Persian empire, and not by
Ptolemy Philadelphus, as stated by some authors. Numerous traces

"r Brugsch mentions that another route traversed the desert of Shur
(to the S. of the Sirbonic Lake) to the Gulf of Suez, but was little frequented, being described by Pliny as'asperum montibus et Mops aquarum'
(mountainous and destitute of water).



