4'28 Router. THE SUEZ CANAL. From Sues

of the work, and fragments of monuments with inscriptions both in
the Persian and Egyptian character, have been found (p. 432).
Under the Ptolemies the canal system was extended. While one
arm led from Phakusa on the file to the lakes towards the S. of
Pelnsium. that is, direct to the Mediterranean through the connected
lakes of Balah and Menzaleh, another branch was now constructed
from Lake Balah to the Bitter Lakes, into which the fresh-water
canal watering the scriptural land of Goshen also fell (p. 409). It
was thus feasible in the time of the Ptolemies to travel by water
from the Nile to the S. part and also to the N. part ofa canal,
which, like the modern Suez Canal, connected the Red Sea and the
Mediterranean in a nearly direct line. When Antony returned to
Egypt after the battle of Actium in B. C. 31, Cleopatra made an
unsuccessful attempt to convey her ships across the Isthmus of Suez
in order to escape with her treasures from Octavian. As, however,
it is very improbable that she would have attempted to transport
vessels of considerable size for so long a distance by land, there
can be little doubt that the canal still existed in her time, although
in a dilapidated and unserviceable condition.

The canal is said to have been restored during the Roman
period. Another canal, beginning near Cairo, and terminating in the
Gulf of Suez, the precise course of which, probably following the
earlier channel, is nowhere described, is said to have been called
the Amnis Trajanus, and was probably constructed during the
reign of that emperor (NO. 98-117). A canal of Hadrian is also
mentioned. It is certain, however, that the chief mercantile route
between the lied Sea and Italy did not follow the Nile and the canal thence to the Gulf of Suez. The Indian vessels of the Romans
touched at llerenike, a little to the N. of the tropic of Cancer, and
still more frequently at Leukos Linlen, the modern Kogt'l', or at
Myos Hermes in the latitude of Sift; (Lykopolis) on the Red Sea.
From these two last-named seaports, which were much frequented,
especially in the month of September, goods were conveyed by the
great caravan-route to Koptos on the Nile (near the modem Keneh),
and were then transferred to boats which carried them down the
Nile to Alexandria, where they were shipped for their ultimate
destination. After the Arabs had conquered Egypt, they must have
been desirous of connecting the Lower Egyptian part of the Nile
as directly as possible with the Red Sea. rAmr ibn el-'As.si (p. 101 ]
accordingly restored the ancient canal Cor which the Khalig at Cairo
is said to be a portion), and used it for the transport of grain from
Fostiit (p. 5241) to Kolzum LSnez), whence it was exported by the
Red Sea to Arabia. The bed of the ancient canal is said to have
been pointed out to'Amr by a Copt, to whom a remission of the
poll-tux was granted as a reward. The canal is said to have been
filled up by the morbidly suspicious Khalif Al-Maru) ihn Mohammed (754-775), in order to out off the supplies of the army of






