to Port Sa'id. THE SUEZ CANAL. 7. Route. 429

the rebel Mohammed ihn Abt, Talih at Medina, but the truth of
this statement is questionable. It is at all events certain that the
canal became unserviceable after the 8th century. At a later
period the Venetians frequently thought of constructing a canal
through the Isthmus with a view to recover the trade which they
had lost owing to the discovery of the route round the Cape of
Good Hope, and several travellers advocated the scheme; but no
one seriously attempted to carry it out. Leibnitz, too, in his
proposal regarding an expedition to Egypt, made in 1671 to
Louis XIV., the greatest monarch of his age, strongly recommends
the construction of such a canal.

'The lord of Egypt, he says,'is not only in a position to do great
injury to the welfare of the world, as the Turks undoubtedly have done
by the stoppage of trade; but he might, on the other hand, confer a
great benefit on the human race by uniting the Red Sea with the Nile
or with the Mediterranean by means of a canal, in the same way as
France has merited the gratitude of Europe by the construction of a canal along the foot of the Pyrenees. The statement that the level of the
Red Sea is higher than that of the Mediterranean (as Darius was assured)
is a mere myth; and even if such were the case, the opening of such a
canal would not expose Egypt to the danger of inundation".

Sultan Mustafa 111., the admirer of Frederick the Great, "Ali
Bey, the enterprising Mameluke prince, and Buonaparte all
revived the scheme, and the latter on his expedition to Egypt in
1798 (p. 105) even caused the preliminary works to be undertaken, but the actual execution of the project seemed almost as
distant as ever. Lepere, his chief road engineer, and a man of
great ability, surveyed the ground under the most unfavourable
circumstances, and not without personal danger, but owing to a
serious miscalculation he threw great doubt on the feasibility of
the undertaking. While in reality the level of the two seas is nearly
the same, LepE-re estimated that of the Red Sea to be nearly 33 ft.
higher than that of the Mediterranean. Laplace among others protested against the accuracy of this calculation, as being in defiance
of all the laws of hydrostatics, but the supposed obstacle was sufficiently formidable to prevent any farther steps from being taken,
although the scheme still had many supporters, until M. de Lesseps
directed his attention to the matter. It was reserved for this shrewd
and energetic Frenchman to carry out the task which had seemed
impracticable to a series of wealthy and powerful princes. In 1831
he was sent from Tunis to Egypt as a young consular Weve. At
Alexandria, where he had to perform quarantine for a considerable
time, he was supplied with books by M. Mimaut, the French consul. Among them was Lep? rre's Mémoire regarding the scheme of
connecting the two seas, which led him to consider its great importance, although Lep? sre himself doubted its feasibility. In 1838
he made the acquaintance of Lieut. Waghorn, an Englishman
(p. 419), whose zealous advocacy of the construction of a route
between Europe and India via Egypt stimulated his zeal for a sim


