GEOGRAPHICAL NOTICE. 29

1 Rub'a = 3.75 litres = 61/2 pints; 1 wébeh = 30 litres =
[ 3 gals. 29/5 qts.; 1 ardeb = 7 wébeh = 010 litres = 46 gals. 13/5 qt.

l Pik--0.67 metre = 26.37 inches; 1 pik, land measurement,
= 29.527 (about 291/2) inches; 1 kassaba 3.55 metres =r. 11 it
7.76;, (about 11 ft. Th ] inches.

1 Feddau = 4200 square metres--.". about 5082 sq. yds. =
11/20 acre.

II. Geographical and Political Notice.
By D )". Schwet'nfurth of Cairo.

Boundaries and Area (comp. Map, p. 30). The countries subject to the supremacy of the Khedive embrace by far the greater
part of NE. Africa, or nearly the whole of the territory adjacent to
the Nile. The natural boundaries of the vessel kingdom founded
by Mohammed'Ali and bequeathed by him to his successor in 1848
are formed by the Mediterranean Sea on the N., the Libyan Desert
on the W., the Red Sea on the E., and Abyssinia, which may be
called the Quito of Africa, on the S.E. These boundaries include
EGYPT PROPER, with the five oases of the Libyan desert and part of
the peninsula of Sinai, the NUBIAN VALLEY OF THE NILE, with the
Nubian desert regions, and lastly the so-called EGYPTIAN SfiDfo,
which consists of the districts of Take, Senndr, and Kordofén. The
Khedive Isma'il, whose dominions were secured to him as a fief
hereditary in the male line, extended his boundaries still farther to
the S., S.E., and S.W. Thus he purchased Sautkin and Masau'a on
the Red Sea, and Zthy and Berbera on the Gulf of'Aden, four important seaports and commercial places, together with the coast
districts adjoining them, which formerly belonged directly to the
Turkish government; and in the same way he acquired part of the
coast of the Somali, extending to the equator, a district replete
with still untouched natural treasures. The districts of the Bogus
and Galubat on the frontiers of Abyssinia have been occupied with
a view to protect important commercial routes, and together with the
Somali territory ofHarar have been annexed to the Egyptian empire.
Dar--Far, once an entirely independent principality in the Mohammedan Stdin, and the terror of its neighbours, has lately been conquered by the Egyptians, and the empire of the Khedive has thus
been increased by four very populous provinces, while Mohammed
'Ali, who was less fortunate in his designs on that region, succeeded
in gaining possession of Kordofén only, the E. part of it. Bogos,
Galabat, and the other provinces adjoining the N. frontier of Abyssinia are, however, constantly exposed to the inroads of their warlike neighbours, and it will probably be impossible in the long run to
resist the importunate demand of the Abyssinian monarch for their
restitution. The rebellion which broke out in most of the Mahommedan provinces of theEgyptian SOin in 1883 threatens to entail
the entire loss of Isma'il's acquisitions to the S. of Egypt proper.



