432 Route 7. SIIALfiF. From Sue: I

which are dry at low tide, lie on the E., and others on the W. side

of the ship's course. We pass a handsome pier on the left, from

the S. side of which the navigable channel to Suez, bordered by
shallows, branches "to the N.W.l and then, nearly in the latitude of Suez, we enter the mouth of the canal. On that part of I
the W. bank of which the Canal has made an island by separating
it from the mainland, rise the workshops and coal magazines of the
company and the quarantine establishment. At low tide the shallows in the N. part of the gulf are visible, and a series of islands
is always to be seen at the extremity of the gulf, which, but for the
Canal, might be crossed on foot at low tide. On the westernmost
island, situated opposite the railway station and the hotel, is an
old burial-ground, and on a larger island farther to the E. are the
company's furnaces and workshops.

At the 150th kilometre (the 83rd on the fresh-water canal) the
desert rises in a slight eminence, on which lie a number of huge
granite blocks, the remains of two monuments erected here by Darius, during the Persian period, and still bearing trace: of hieroglyphics and of the Persian cuneiform characters.

"They were doubtless intended to arrest the eye of the passenger travelling through the canal, and were therefore of imposing dimensions,
and placed on a massive pedestal. The bed of the ancient canal is, moreover, traceable in the neighbourhood. It does not seem to me probable
that Darius should have limited himself to the three monuments of which
there are still remains, particularly as the distance between the second
and third (at Shali1f and Serapeum respectively) is much greater than
that between the first and second. One other monument at least may therefore be supposed to have stood between the second and third.... These
three monuments have been destroyed by violence, perhaps during the
successful rising of the Egyptians in the reign of Artaxerxes, or after
they had finally shaken oil" the Persian yoke. Fire, which is very injurious to granite, seems to have been used in destroying them'. _.
(Lepsius.)

Near Sltal0/'et- Terrttheh Ca station on the left, near the 139th kilometre, with a village in the midst of vegetation, founded by the
company), no less than 40,000 cubic yds. of limestone, coloured
red and brown with iron, had to be removed in the course of the
excavation of the Canal, and interesting geological formations have
been brought to light (comp. p. 00).

The lower stratum of the bank contains a layer of sharks" teeth
(Carcharodon megalodon Ag.)... The limestone rock of which the bank
consists, and which is rapidly decomposed by exposure to the air. is
mingled with salt and gypsum, and betrays its pure oceanic origin; for
not only does its lowest stratum contain numerous teeth and vertebra of
the Car-nharodon, but the rock itself contains bivalvc shells and remains of

tryozoa. which fall out as the ruck disintegrate. Above the limestone
lies a layer of loose sand. A thin stratum of the rock, which is full of
remains of boring conchylia and crocodiles" teeth, also contains bones and
teeth of large quadrupeds, Cetacca, and sharks'. - (0. Frans.)

Near Shaluf is the second of the monuments erected by Darius
(see above), which was discovered by MM. RoziE-re and Devilliers,
two of the, Savant: attached to the French expedition, and was excavated by M. de Lesseps in 1866. The red blocks, which belong












