to Port Saint SERAPEUM. 7. Route. 433

to two different monuments, bear Persian cuneiform and hieroglyphic inscriptions. In the latter the name of Darius occurs. The
representations still preserved exhibit a curious combination of
Persian and Egyptian characteristics The winged disk of the sun
of the Egyptians resembles the'Feruer' of the Persian monuments.
The Persian time is adorned with the heads of two kings, opposite
to each other. The figures are in the Egyptian style, and between
the outstretched hands of each is an Egyptian'cartouche', or frame
for the name of a king. One of the blocks bears hieroglyphic: in
front (half obliterated) and cuneiform characters at the back.

The Canal now enters what is called the Small Basin of the
Isthmus, which consists entirely of shell formations, and thence
leads into the Large Basin of the Bitter Lakest (p. 420 ]. At
each end of the large basin rises an iron lighthouse, 60 it. in
height. The water is of a bluish green colour. The banks are flat
and sandy, but a little to the left rises the not unpicturesque
range of the Gebel Genefl'eh (p. 414). A little farther on (near the
89th kilométre) is the cutting which conducts the Canal through
the rocky barrier of the Serapeum. The railway station (p. 414) is
near the fresh-water canal. A flight of steps ascends to the top
of the left bank of the Canal. The village, which was founded in
1860, contains several pleasant little gardens.

The ruins from which the station derives its name were formerly
supposed to have belonged to a Serapeum, which, according to the itinerary of Antonino, once stood in this neighbourhood; but they can hardly
have belonged to a temple of Serapis or to any other sanctuary, and
Lepsius is doubtless right in pronouncing them to be the remains of a
third monument erected on the bank of the ancient canal by Darius
(p. 432). He found here a fragment of the wing of a disk in the Persian
style, a stone with cuneiform characters, and a third bearing hieroglyphics, all of which confirmed his opinion, The blocks of limestone lying
on the ground belonged to the pedestals of the monuments. The ruins
of the real Serapeum have been probably discovered in the remains of a
stone building, about "paces long (from E. to W.), and 63 paces bread
(from N. to 8.), situated about 1/4 M. to the S. of the 14th kilometre stone
on the fresh-water canal. Excavations made there have brought to light
a few Egypto-Roman antiquities, which probably once belonged to a
village connected with the Serapeum. In accordance with the rule regarding the temples of Serapis, the village must have lain entirely beyond
the precincts of the sanctuary.

At the 85th kilometre is situated Tustin, which is easily recognised by the whitewashed dome of the tomb of a certain Shé'klt Ennedek, a wealthy chief, who, after having made a pilgrimage to
Mecca, is said to have presented his cattle and his gardens to the
poor, and to have spent the rest of his life on the Grebe ] Maryam
near Lake Timsih in pious meditation. Excavations in the neighbourhood of Tustin have led to the discovery of many interesting
fossil remains of large animals belonging to the meiocene tertiary



+ Brugscli identifies the Bitter Lakes with the Marah of the Bible
(Exod. xv. 28 ]:'And when they came to Norah they could not drink of
the waters of Marah, for they were bitter'.

BAEDEKER'S Egypt I. 2nd Ed. 28



