434 Route 7. ISMA'ILIYA. From Suez

formation, and pieces of fossil wood have also been found here
o. 3381. - Before entering Lake Timsah we pass the foot of the
Gebel Maryam, which an Arabian legend points out as the place
where Miriam, when smitten with leprosy for her disapproval of the
marriage of Moses with an Ethiopian woman, spent seven days,
beyond the precincts of the camp of the Israelites (Numbers, xii ].

At the 80th kilometre stone the Canal enters Lake Timsah, or
the Crocodile Lake (p. 4091, on the N. bank of which lies the town
of Isma'iliya. The lake, which is now about 6 sq. M. in area, and
of a beautiful pale blue colour, was, before the construction of the
Canal, a mere pond of brackish water, and full of reeds. On 18th
Nov. 1862 the water of the Mediterranean was let into this basin,
which is traversed by two artificial channels for the passage of
large vessels.

Isma'iliya. Railway Station, see p. 414; steamer to Port Sa'id, see
p. 1124. - In the Place Champollion, between the station and the harbour,
is the "Hétel Paris, a good though very unpretending inn. On the lake
is the small'U76tet des Rains de Men. pension 12 fr., bath lfr.

Post and Telegraph Offices and Chemist's Shop not far from the railway station.

While the Canal was being constructed this town was the central point of the works, and the residence ofnumerous officials and
traders, so that its traffic soon became very considerable, and it
has even been extolled by modern poets as a'wonder of the desert'.
Its suddenly acquired prosperity declined almost as suddenly when
the canal works were completed, but the town has lately regained
a little of its former animation. The houses and gardens and the
viceroyal chateau, which had fallen into a dilapidated condition,
have recently been restored. The climate is pleasant and the air
dry, notwithstanding the proximity of the water. The ground,
which has been reclaimed from the desert by means of irrigation,
has been planted with tasteful gardens. On the N.E. side of the
town are the chateau of the Khedive and the waterworks; on the
w. side is the Arabian quarter.

The best way of spending a few leisure hours here is to visit the
hill of El-Gisr (see below; 1-2 hrs.; donkey l fix). The route to it
passes the Pierre Gardens and the engine-house of the waterworks.

CANAL JOURNEY TO PORT SA'iD. The steamer (p. 4'24) at first
follows the navigable channel indicated by stakes. To the S. rises
the Gebcl Am Rain ]: range. In 1/4111. we reach the entrance to the
Canal, which now intersects the plateau of El-Gisr ('the threshold')
in a straight direction. The hills of Tll-Gisr cross the course of the
Canal a little to the N. nfLake Timsilh and presented a serious ole
startle, to its construction. The average height of the'threshold'
is 59 ft. above the sea-level, and it is now about 82ft. above the
bottom of the Canal. In order to form a cutting through it, no less
than 18,707,000 cubic yds. of earth had to be removed, and 20,000
fellahin were employed in the work before machinery could be








