to Port Sand. LAKE MENZALEH. 7. Route. 435

brought into operation. At the top of the hill is the deserted village
of Et-Gisr, with a chapel to the Virgin of the Desert, a small Swiss
house, and a mosque. A flight of steps ascends to this point from
the Canal. In clear weather the view hence embraces a great part
of the Isthmus, the frowning'Atilia Mts. rising above Suez, the
majestic mountains of the peninsula of Sinai, the course of the
Canal, and the green expanse of the Bitter Lakes.

The Canal is flanked with high banks of yellow sand. At the
next passing-place we obtain a glimpse of the desert. Near ElFenldn (at the 63rd kilometre stone) the Canal passes through a
cutting, and then traverses Lake Batch, from which it is separated
by a low embankment. We next reach El-Kantara C'the bridge'),
or properly Kanta'rat el-Khazneh C'bridge of the treasure'), situated
on a rising ground between the Menzaleh and Bali) lakes, and
forming a kind of natural bridge between Africa and Asia. The
caravans starting from the town of Salihiyeh, situated on the old
Pelusiac arm of the Nile, and the point where the chief commercial
routes of the N.E. part of the Delta unite, pass this way, and the
projected Egypto-Syrian railway will take the same direction The
old bridge was removed by the Canal Company, and replaced by a
ferry. The station here contains several restaurants [ Hotel de la
Paste, ile1jet1ner 4 fr., very fair; opposite to it are'Refreshment
Rooms' and a'Buffet des Voyageurs'; halt of 1/._-3/4 hr.). The hill
to the left commands a tolerable survey of the environs.

About 11/2 M. from Kantara lie a number of large blocks of the same
sandstone conglomerate as that of which the colossal fiwnres of the Hem »
nun consist They appear to have been used as altars in some monumental edifice, which, as the inscriptions inform In, was erected hy
Sett L in honour of his father Ramses I., and completed by Ramses H.,
the son of Seti. To what ancient town these ruins belonged has not been
ascertained. A moderate day's journey distant are situated the extensive
ruins of Pelusium, the celebrated eastern seaport and key to Egypt, which
now contains no objects of interest. The ruin-strewn Tell t) m P, and
the more extensive Gezz'ret el » Fm'uma, which is also covered with debris,
were once occupied by the ancient fortress.

Immediately beyond Kantara begins Lake Menzaleh, through
which the Canal is constructed in a perfectly straight line to Port
Sa'id (45 kilometres).

'The brackish waters of this lake extend over an area of about WOO MI.
21., covering what was once one of the most fertile districts in Egypt, and
was intersected by the three most important arms of the Nile in ancient
times, the Pelusiac, the Tannin, and the Mendesian. Among the numerous
towns and villages situated here were the important cities of Avaris, the
name of which, afterwards changed to Pelusium, is connected with several
important and stirring historical events; Tanis (p. 452 ], situated on the
Tanitic arm and on a canal connecting that arm with the Mendesian, a
place where trade and science once prospered; and Tennis (p. 1152), of the
ruins of which there are still traces on an island in Lake Menzaleh. Not
only has this vast tract been lost to cultivation, but the environs of the
lake also are in a miserable condition from long neglect... I have rarely
seen a more desolate region than this, which was once so smiling. In
the midst of the interminable expanse of sand, swamp, and water, the
only relief to the eye was afforded by immense flocks of pelicans and

98*



