436 Route 7. PORT SA'm

silver herons and a few herds of buffaloes. The right of fishing here is
farmed out by government atn rent of1,500,000 frs. per annum, but what
a paltry sum is (Stephan).

The operation of draining the lake has been begun, particularly of the part adjoining the Canal. Curious mirages are sometimes observed here.

Rds el-'Esh is the last (15111) station. We soon come in sight
of the numerous masts of Port Sa'id, which we reach in 3/4 hr.
more. To the N.W. are the white stones of the cemetery, the
tombs in which are constructed in the form of vaults of masonry
above ground, as the soil is saturated with salt water at a depth
of 2 ft. below the surface.

Port Sa'id.

Hotels. "HM? DES run Bas (Nether lands 1111111 P1 11), pens.' 15 fr.;
HOTEL on FRANCE nr DU LOUVRE (Pl. h), pens 1211- - The Eldorado
and the Grand Casino are two much-frequented music halls, which may
be visited by ladies; theatrical performances are given at the former in
winter. Cafe Paradis, Quai Francois-Joseph.

Egyptian Post Office, P1. 15; French, P1. 16-, Egyptian Telegraph Office, Pl. l; Eastern Telegraph Co., P1. 17.

Consuls. American, lip. Broadbent; Austrian, IN. v. Reglia; British,
11/12 Burrel; French, J ]. Dobignie; German, Hr, Bronn; Greek, M. Polymer-is, - Holland, Count van der Duyn; Italian, Dr. Vitto; Sweden 11111111111,
th'. Wills; Belgium, 111. O'Connor; b'pain, Sam
de la Corie; Russia, 117'. Bream.

Banks. Agencies of the Anglo-Egyptian Banking ('0., the Credit Lyonmu's, and the Banque Ottomane

8teyebtrat, sec 7. Voyage to Jaffa or to Alexandria 15 hrs. On arriving at Port 5111111 by sea, as in the case of Alexandria (p. 203),
the traveller sees nothing of the low, sandy coast until the steamer
reaches the yellowish-green water near it, which is rendered turbid by the
mud of the Nile. The lighthouse and the masts of vessels at anchor in
the roads first come into view, after which we observe the massive Piers
(see below) which protect the entrance to the port. The custom-house
examination takes place immediately on landing. Passports, though asked
for, are not indispensable. If the vessel does 11mm 11 at the quay, 1/1 fr.
is charged for taking each passenger ashore. Travellers wishing to secure a passage in one the steamers bound for Syria during the travelling
season (February to April) had better do so by telegraph. - Regular communication with Isma'iliya is maintained by the small screw-steamers of
(he Sues Canal Co. and of the Egyptian Post Office.

Lake Menzaleh (see p. 41151111111115 excellent Wild Fowl Shooting in
March and April. Flamingoes are observed among many other Species
The charges for the necessary boats vary greatly according to the demand.
If possible the sportsman should return to Port Sa'id every evening, as
the nights are often cold and rainy, but, ifprovided with a tent, a cook,
and other necessary appliances, he may camp out on several of the different islands in succession.

The town of Port Su'id, which owes its origin to the Suer.
Canal, lies at the E. extremity of an island which belongs to the
narrow strip of land separating Lake Menzaleh from the Mediterranean. It is the seat of the general manager of the Suez Canal. It
was expected that the prosperity of the place would increase rapidly, but its progress has hitherto been very gradual. The broad,



