PORT SA'ID. 7. Route. 437

regular streets consist chiefly of light and temporary brick buildings. The population (17,058, including 6000 Europeans) is similar
in character to that of Suez, but the French element preponderates
here still more. The construction of the harbour was attended
with immense difficulty. It occupies an area of 570 acres, and
has been excavated to a depth of 20 it. by means of laborious
dredging. It is protected by two massive piers; the eastern running out into the sea towards the N. for a distance of an English
mile; and the western, running towards the N.E. for 11/2 M.,
being still unfinished. Where they start from the land these piers
are 1440 yds. apart, but their extremities approach within 770 yds.
of each other. The navigable entrance, marked by buoys which
are lighted at night, is only 100-100 yds. in width. (Those who
have leisure may hire a boat for a cruise in the harbour or for
the purpose of visiting one of the large steamers lying at anchor.)
The most serious risk to which the harbour is exposed is that of
being choked up with the Nile mud which is deposited on the
Pelusiac coast by a current in the Mediterranean, constantly flowing
from the west (comp. p. 207). The western pier is intended to
ward off these accumulations of sand and mud, and also to
shelter the harbour from the N.\\'. winds which prevail during
two-thirds of the year; and it is therefore of great length and solidity. Both piers were constructed by the Freres Dussaud of
blocks of artificial stone, manufactured of seven parts of sand from
the desert and one part of hydraulic lime imported from Ardéche
in France. The concrete was mixed by machinery and poured into
large wooden moulds, in which it remained for several weeks. The
moulds were then removed, and the blocks exposed to the air to
harden them more thoroughly. Each block weighed 20 tons, and
measured about 131/3 cubic yards in solid content. Thirty of them
were manufactured daily, and 25,000 in all were required.

'Above the wooden moulds, which covered an extensive piece of
ground, was constructed a tramway, bearing a steam-crane, which could
be moved to any required spot, for the purpose of hoisting the blocks
and conveying them to their destination. After having been hoisted by
the crane, the blocks were transported to a boat, where they were placed
on an inclined plane in twos or threes, and secured by menu of wedges.
They were then conveyed to the place where they were to be sunk, the
wedges were removed, and the huge masses then slid down the incline,
splitting the wood and emitting sparks of fire on their way, and plunged
into the water with a tremendous splash, while the boat staggered from
the effects of the shock and was lashed by the w es thus artificially
caused. These huge'pierres perdues', as they are technically called. were
thus gradually heaped up until they reached the surface, and the last
layers, rising a little above the level of the water, were finally deposited
by means of a crane on board of a steamboat".

On the strip of land separating Lake Menzaleh from the Mediterranean rises the *Liguhouse, constructed of concrete, 16-1 it. in
height, and one of the largest in the world. Its electric lights are
visible to a distance of 24 M. To the E. of it are quays and workshops. The streets extend along the W. side of the Inner Harbour,



