fill GEOGRAPHICAL NOTICE. Frontiers.

The boundaries of Egypt in a due S. direction were still more
boldly extended by Isma'il. They now comprise the whole course
of the White Nile and the greater part of the river region of the
Bohr tt-GhreuU, where merchants from Khartnm had already for
many years possessed settlements and by force of arms had subdued the negro tribes. At the time of Mohammed'Ali's death the S.
boundary of the Egyptian dominions on the White bile was formed
by the corn-magazines of Et-'Esh and the wharves nea it, situated
about 130 N. latitude, while it now extends to the military station
of Fauira ten the river connecting the Victoria and the Albert
Nyanza), situated about EON. latitude, so that the whole length of
the empire is now about 2000 English miles. The S. frontier, from
Dar--Fur to Berbera, a distance of 1500 AL, now almost entirely
surrounds the kingdom of Abyssinia.

Down to 1853 the whole of the vast territory within these boundaries was, nominally at least, immediately subject to the Khedive,
though but sparsely occupied by his comparatively small army, and
it contained no tributary peoples mediately subject to him. These
enormous tracts, on the other hand, are utterly disproportionate to
the population, the desert regions are immeasurably more extensive
than the fertile districts, and the barbarous and unprofitable inhabitants far more numerous than the civilised and wealth--producing. The geographer and the political economist therefore would
vary widely in their description of the real boundaries of the
country. The country which (until the most recent events) owned
no other master than the Khedive or his representatives is ofimmeuse extent. but the cultivable part of Egypt, which forms the
sole source of its wealth, is of very limited area. The extensive
dominions of the Khedive which lie to the S. of Egypt proper are
still entirely protitless, and hence it was that Isma'il did his utmost
to extend the commerce in this direction, and to improve the means
of communication.

Thus while Egypt is nominally as extensive as two-thirds of
Russia in Europe, it shrinks to the size of Belgium when the Valley of the Nile, its only productive part, inhabited by a tax-paying
population, is alone taken into consideration. The total area of the
empire is fully one and a quarter million square miles, including
that part of the Libyan Desert which falls within the western
boundary drawn from the oasis of b'iwa to the west end of DirF't'sr, and which alone measures 525,000 sq. M. in extent. On the
other hand Egypt proper, extending towards the desert so for only
as it is irrigated by the fertilisiug Nile, the'porch, BIAf-R' Lthe Miymim
of the Hilde ], though 550 M. in length, is the narrowest country in
the world. The area of this cultivable tract, which has remained
unaltered since the remotcst antiquity, is about "11,342 sq. M. only
(or 21511. M. less than Belgium ], excluding Wzinli lialfa and the other
districts above Assuan. In 1882 Amici Bey calculated the entire in









