438 Route 8. MANsfinA. Towns of the

which consists of three sheltered basins in which vessels discharge
and load. The first of these, beginning on theN. side, is the basin
of the commercial harbour, the second is that of the quays, and the
third the'Bassin ('he'rif'. The last is flanked with handsome buildings, which were erected by Prince Henry of the Netherlands as a
depot for facilitating the Dutch goods and passenger traffic between
Europe and the colonies of Holland; on his death, however, which
happened in 1882, they were purchased by the English government,
and they are now used a military depdt and barracks.

8. Towns of the Central and Northern Delta.

A tour in the inland and rorthern districts of the Delta, including a
visit to the towns of Mansfira. Damietta, and the exploration
of some of the ruins of towns near the embouchures of the Nile, is attended with considerable difficulty and discomfort, with which the attractions are by no means commensurate. A week at least is required
for the excursion. unless the traveller confine himself to places lying
close to the railway.

Those who are unacquainted with the language, and propose tn penetrate into the interior of the country, should he provided with a dragomun
or a servant (p. 131, a. tent, and a cock, as there are no tolerable hotels
except at Tania, anil Rosette. Introductions should be ohtuined through the consulate at Cairo to the consular agents at Mansura,
Rosetta, and: Damietta, and to the shokh of the fisheries at Tanis.

As wet weather and cold nights are not uncommon in the Delta in
winter, the traveller should be well provided with warm clothing and
rugs. A moderate supply of provisions and wine will also be found useful.

DisrosrTioN or TIME. The railway traffic in the Delta has much increased of late, so that the following tours can now be accomplished
with much less loss of time than formerly. The hours of starting and
the fares are so often changed, that it is useless to give them here,

Ist Day: From Cairo to 11111111111 .--2nd 111 At lesur'l; and start from Talkha, opposite Mansura, for Do
mietla .--3rd Day: Forcnoon at D11i11i1\t, ta: in the afternoon, by train
(14.) p.111.) to Tania. - 4th Day: From Tonto to Rosette. - 51h Day: F1on1
losctta to Alexandria .--A visit to Tunis takes two days more, and to

Sal's also two days.
The tour may also be made in the reverse direction, and some travellers will find it convenient to proceed from Tanis direct to Port Sa'id.
The journey itself presents little attraction. The chief characteristics
of the monotonous scenery are extensive and often remarkably fertile
fields, canals, and dirty villages surrounded by palm-trees.

a. From Cairo to Nans.sitra.

92 M. 1111111111 in G h fare 69 or 46 piasires tariff.

From Cairo to Ci7t/sh10 ZnZa'zlec, see 11.5; halt of 1/2 hr. ("illefresl1n1e11t Room ]. The Mamy) ra train crosses the Pelusiac arm of
the Nile and proceeds to the N.N.E., following the E. bank of the
Mafia-z Canal, the ancient Tanitic branch of the Nile, and traversing a fertile district. Stations (56 M.) Mchiyeh and (62 M.) A1117.
KANT.

l? rom A1111 Keh'ir a branch- line runs to the it via Tell Fem: ztneicnlly
ylyyyy 111 450, to (201/2 ill.) I aiilu'yeh, situated (11.55) and On the caravan road to Syria. - heme vih
h-youd Ab) Kehir the line turns to the N.W., crosses the







,






