, Northern Delta. MANSURA. 8. Route. 439

Mu'izz Canal and a number of other smaller canals, and next
reaches (66 M.) El-Bflha and [ 711/2 M. ] A512 Shelczilt [ route thence
to Tanis, see p. 451). - 70 M. Sinbelawim - 9'2 M. Jfan.stra.

A shorter route from Cairo lt) Maegan is to take the train (leaving
Cairo at 10. 30 a m. and 6 p.111.) to Tania and Talkha (p. 442), and then to
cross the Nile to Mansfira.

Mansfira (Hotel dc France; Hdtel Papathanasi; Hotel (In Nil;
Filieiano's Restaurant; consular agents for Great Britain, Germany,
etoO, a town with 162000 iuhab., surrounded by cotton-fields,
lies on the right bank of the ancient Bucolic or Phatnitic arm
of the Xile, now the Damietta branch, from which diverges the
Ashrnttn or Sughayyar ('the little') canal. Next to Tania, Mansfira
is the most important provincial town in the Delta; it is the
residence of the Mudir of the province of Dalmhliych, and is the
chief depot of the bread-studs, cotton, indigo, tobacco, hemp, and
flax which this part of the Delta produces. There are several
large mannfactories here, and many European inhabitants, chiefly
Greeks. Most of the houses are badly built and in a dilapidated
condition.

HISTORY. Mansura. (Le.'the victorious), a comparatively modern
place, was founded by Sultan Melik el-Kitmil in 1220, after the capture of
Damietta by the Christians (p. 443 ], and doubtless as an advantageous
substitute for that place in a strategic point of view, as it lies securely
ensconced in the angle formed by the Damietta arm of the Nile and the
Ashmfin Canal. The new fortress, according to the chronicles of Jordanus, was called New Damietta, to which the epithet of Nanytra, or
'the victorious', was afterwards added. Melik erktunil constructed the
place with great care, and throw a bridge, strengthened with iron, across
the Nile, which served both for the purpose of communicating with the
opposite bank and as a barrier to prevent the Christians from forcing
their way farther up the Nile. The first serious attack made on Monsura was by the Crusaders under Louis IX. of France in 1250. After encountering great difficulties they succeeded in crossing the Ashmfin Canal,
and on the first day of battle, after a severe struggle, they were eventually victorious. In the neighbourhood of Mansdra, huwever, they were
repeatedly defeated by the young Sultan cl-lilo'azzam Turanshah. Their
fleet was destroyed. and'famine-fever' broke out. Negociations of
peace proved fruitless, and when the ill-fated Crusaders attempted to
escape they were intercepted by the vigilant Turks, who thinned their
ranks terribly and captured the king with his brother Charles of Anjou
and a number of the knights attending them. Louis thus expresses himself regarding this misfortune in a letter which is still extant: -'The
Saracens with their whole army and in immense numbers fell upon the
Christian army during our retreat, and thus it happened that by divine
permission, and as our sins merited, we fell into the hands of the enemy.
We ourselves, our brothers the counts Alphonso of Poitiers and Charles
of Anjou, and all who were retreating with us by land, fell into captivity, though not without many losses by death and much shedding of
Christian blood and not one escaped. During his captivity at Mansura
Louis 1X. was treated with consideration, even after the young Mo'azgam
Turanshah had been assassinated before his eyes, and the crown of Egypt
had passed from the house of Saladin to the so- called Babrite Hamelukes
(p. 104 ]. On 6th May, 1250, Louis and his barons were released on pay-ment of a heavy ransom, and on surrendering the town of Damietta

Leaving the Mudiriyeh and following the curve described by
the street, we pass a small mosque on he left and the German con


