440 Route 8. nmmi'r EL-HAGER. Towns of the

snlate on the right, and after a few hundred paces reach a lane on
the left, containing the Gz'zmz" es-Sign (here pronounced Sagna),
or'mosque of the prison', which is pointed out as the prison of
Louis IX., although Abulfida has stated that the king was confined in the house of Ibn Fakhreddin, the scribe of the town,
situated on the Nile. (A small room on the bank of the Nile is
shown as Fakhreddin's house, but without the slightest authority.)
The mosque contains columns brought from older edifices, with
Byzantine capitals of Corinthian tendency, bearing Saracenic arches. The Mambar (pulpit) and ceiling are still embellished with
remains of tine wood-carving, which was originally painted. Another, and probably correct tradition points out an old house of
Saladin's time, next door to the El-Muwafilc Mosque, as the true
prison of Louis IX.

The town contains no other sights. The palace of the Khedive
is a large and unpleasing building.

EXCURSION TO Bnunir EL~HAGBR. The excursion by boat takes
2 hrs. up the river, and 11/2 hr. in the reverse direction, so that,
including a stay of 2 hrs., it occupies 6-7 hrs. in all. The charge
for a good boat is 6-8 fr.; bad walkers should take donkeys with
them. In ascending the stream, the boat passes the town on the
left, lying close to the bank of the river. On the right is the village of Gfiger, also known from an early period as Tell el- Ythtdtyeh
Chill of the Jews'), inhabited by Arabs. Many of the Jews of Man..
sire still cause their dead to be interred here. The next places are
13th Nubit on the right, and Kafr Wish on the left The Shékh el-.
Beled (mayor of the village) of the latter place possesses a pleasant
garden, which is often visited by the inhabitants of Mansfira, particularly on feast-days, for the purpose of'smelling the air'. Nearly
opposite this village we land (on the right) at an old bulwark of
blocks of limestone and bricks, near the Kanlurat cl- Wish, a bridge
across a canal which joins the river here .---From the river to the
ruins is a pleasant walk of 40 minutes. The luxuriant trees on the
route have quite a European appearance, as theyinclude lime-trees,
silver poplars, and willows, besides the stint-tree, the lebbek, the
tamarisk, and the berm'if shrub. We traverse well-cultivated fields,
and soon reach the distinct traces of a wall enclosing a heap of
ruins, known to the Arabs as U/asrer et-fMrrtris' (buffaloes' stone),
which form the remains of the once magnificent Isis Temple of

U
Q 63 Hebt or Habit, or Pa Habit, i. e. the town of the panegyr
ics or festive assembly. The words Pa llebit were corrupted by
the Arabs to Behbit. The Copts knew the place by its sacred name
of Naisi (neuter), and the Romans called it Iseum or Isidis 0ppidum. lt lay in the Sebennytic nome, the capital of which was
fiobylnytus, situated on the same site as the modern Semennud
(p. 445 ], once the home of Manetho, and about 61/2 M. distant






