Northern Delta. BEHBIT EL-HAGER. 8. Route. 441

from Pa Hebit. Some idea of the immense changes which have
taken place in the vegetation of this region since the era of hieroglyphics may be formed from the fact that, while the papyrus plant
was sedulously and successfully cultivated on both banks of the
Nile in the neighbourhood of Sebennytus, not a single specimen of
this useful plant is now to be met with, either here or in any other
part of the Delta. On the N.W. side of the ruins of the temple
lies the village of Behbit, and adjoining it still exists the sacred
lake of the temple. The ruins of the venerable sanctuary of Isis
form an imposing and most picturesque mass of blocks, fragments
of columns and architraves, ceiling slabs, and other remains, altogether about 400 paces in circumference. We are reminded of
the animal sacred to Isis by the reliefs of cows and of figures with
cows' heads on several of the blocks of stone. The name of
Ptolemy II. Philadelphus I. (13.0. 284-246). 284-22 (O, the founder of
the temple, occurs in several places. The structure must have
been a very costly one, as it consisted entirely of beautiful granite,
chiefly grey, and partly red in colour, brought from a great distance.
The sculptures (hautreliefs and reliefs en crew) are most elaborately
executed. Several of the female heads and busts, and some of the
cows' heads also, are remarkably fine. In some of the inscriptions
the hieroglyphics are unusually large, in others they are of small
and elegant form, and in all they are executed in the somewhat
flourishing style peculiar to the age of the Ptolemies. The chief
deities revered here were Isis, with Osiris and Horus, besides whom
occur Seb and Nut, Hathor and Khunsu, the triad of Sehu, Tefnut,
and Anhur, Sebek, Hapi [ the Nile), and Anubis in the form of
Horus, as the avenger of his father. We may also remark here that
Anubis, the martyr, wasanative of Naisi, or the Iseum, on the site
of which we now stand. On the W. side of the ruins is an interesting large slab of grey granite, veined with red, on which is
represented the king offering a gift of land to Osiris and Isis,'the
great divine mistress of IIebit'. Higher up there is another block
of grey granite, with a representation of Isis enthroned, and of the
king offering to'his mother' two small bags of the green mineral
called mafkat and mes.tem, or eye-paint. The inscriptions consist of
the usual formulae regarding offerings. None of them are perfect,
but many must still be concealed among the ruins. The pylons
have disappeared, and with them the historical inscriptions also.
One of the sculptures represents a procession of the gods of the
nome, but unfortunately their names are not given. In one case
Isis calls the king'her brother'. Adjoining a figure of the goddess
is the inscription: -'Isis, mistress of Hebit, who lays everything
before her royal brother'. On a grey block of granite, lying in an
oblique position, is represented the sacred bark of Isis, resembling
those seen elsewhere in bronze only. The cabin is like a house of
two stories, in the upper of which sits the goddess, with cow's horns



