442 Route 8. DAMIE'I"'A. Towns of the

and a disk, on a lotus flower, and attended on her right and left by
female genii with long wings. Each of the genii bears in her
hand the pen of the goddess of truth. The ruins of the temple are
now so confused that it is impossible to form even an approximate
idea of its original form. A number of blocks resembling millstones show that the shafts of the columns were round. The
capitals were embellished with the Hathor mask. On the N. side
lies an unusually large capital, in granite, and upwards of 7ft. in
circumference. Numerous remains of pillars and architraves also
still exist. The steps which led to the roof of the temple, and probably resembled those at Dendera and Edfu, were also of granite.
A huge block is still to be seen here with four steps attached to it.

The ruins of Mendes, 11 M. to the E. of Mansfira, whence they
may be visited in one day, have recently been excavated, and
it is not unlikely that they may afford a rich spoil to the learned
explorer.

b. From Mansura to Damietta.

ho M. RAILWAY from Talkha (on the left bank of the arm of the Nile,
opposite to Mansura- ferry in 5 min, 1/2 fr.) The trains leave Talkha
at 2.55 and 11 11.111. and reach Damietta at A 35 p.m. and 1.20 a. m. (fares
29 pies. 20, p. m, and 20 paras) .--From Tanta (whence the train comes to
. kin) to Dunn 71/2" in 31/3111/3 Hrs. (fares "or 36 pints.)

The train follows the left bank of the Damietta arm of the Nile.
The land is carefully cultivated in the neighbourhood of Mansfira,
and we observe a number of steam engines which are used for the
irrigation of the soil. The train stops at (14 M.) Shi'rbin, an
insignificant little town built of crude bricks. The next stations are
Rds cl-Khatig and Kafr er-Brs.t.tikk. The latter lies in a monotonous, sandy plain, extending as far as Lake Burlus, and covered in
summer with crops of water-meiosis. An important melon market
is held here in July. The railway-station of Damietta lies on the
left bank of the arm of the hilt: (ferry in 5 111111.; 1 fit).

40 M. Damietta, Arabic Dumyif.t, situated between the Damietta branch of the Nile and Lake Menzaleh, about 4 M. from the
sea, possesses a harbour, annually frequented by about 500 vessels
of an aggregate burden 0140,000 tons.

"BEwrltAND's INN, small; French llandlord. European Cuft kept by
Caeti a Greek, who also lets a few rooms. Post-office and Arabic telegraphullice. A Human Catholic and a Greek church.

Seen from the railway station, situated near the harbour, Damietta, which now has a population of 43,030 souls, presents an
imposing appearance, with its lofty houses flanking the river. The
interior of the town, however, by no means fulfils the traveller's
expectations. On every side lie ruinous old buildings and walls;
many of the houses seem to be uninhabited; and new edifices are
sought for in vain. There are few European residents here, the
insignificant trade of the place being chiefly in the hands of native
merchants (Arabs and Levantines). Small vessels only can enter















