.

Northern Delta. DAMIETTA. 8. Route. 443

the Damietta arm of the Nile, as the bar at its mouth is constantly
altered in form by the wind and waves, so that vessels are liable
to a long detention in the open roads. Under the most favourable
circumstances thenavigable channel varies from 6 to left. in depth.
The industries to which the town was indebted for its former pros

parity (see below) still exist to some extent, and the traveller will
find it interesting to visit one of the streets inhabited by the silk

and cotton weavers.

HISTORY. Little or nothing is known of the early history of Damietta.
It is mentioned by Stephanus of Byzantium as Tumiathia, a name which
has been preserved in the Coptic Tamt'att'. The town must, however, have
been a place of some importance during the Roman period, if we may
judge from the numerous and occasionally very handsome columns in
the mosques, many of which were found on the spot, though others were
brought by the Arabs by sea from Alexandria or Pelusium. Domitian
seems either to have visited Damietta, or to have been one of its patrons,
as a stone bearing his name, doubtless found in the ancient town, now
stands in front of the kadis house. At a later period there were probably agood many Christian residents, as a remarkably fine Christian
church, which was destroyed by the Crusaders, once stood in ancient
Damietta. During the Arabian era Damietta attained a great reputation
on account of the resistance it offered to the Crusaders; but the town of
that period stood farther to the N. than its modern successor (see below).
It was besieged for the first time, but without success, about 1196 by
Amalarich and the troops of Manuel, the Greek emperor. Saladin devoted
special attention to the fortification of the place. In 1218 Damietta was
besieged by King John of Jerusalem with a German, Dutch, English, and
French army, under the generalship of the Count of Saarbruck, aided by
the knights of three ecclesiastical orders. The Christian army, which
was afterwards reinforced by a number of Italian troops, is said to have
consisted of 70,000 cavalry and 40,000 infantry, and although this account
is probably much exaggerated, it was doubtless very numerous. With
the aid of an ingenious double boat, constructed and fortified in accordance with a design by Oliverius, an engineer of Cologne, the Frisians,
Germans, and others of the besiegers succeeded after a light of twentyfive hours in capturing the tower to which the chain stretched across
the river was attached. The success of the Christians was however considerably marred by the interference of the ambitious, though energetic
Pelagius Galvani, the papal legate, and by the vigilance of the Egyptian
prince Melik el-Kfuuil. In 1219 many pilgrims, including Leopold of
Austria, quilted the camp of the besiegers, believing that they had done
their duty. At length, after various vicissitudes, the Christians captured
the place. They obtained valuable spoil, sold the surviving townspeople
as slaves, and converted the mosques into churches, but in 1221 they
were compelled by a treaty to evacuate the town. In 1249, when Louis IX.
landed near Damietta, it was abandoned by its inhabitants, who had set
all the warehouses on fire. Without striking a blow, the Crusaders
marched into the deserted streets of the fortress, but in the course of
the following year they were obliged to restore it to the Saracens as part
of the ransom of Louis IN., who had been taken prisoner at Jrrvuyirrr
fp, 439 ]. During the same year by a resolution of the Emirs, the town
was destroyed, and re-erected on the E. bank of the river, farther to the
S., on the site which it now occupies. The new town soon became an
important manufacturing and commercial place. Its staple products were
leather-wares, cloth, and essence of jasmine, for which it was famous,
and its harbour was visited by ships of many different nations. After
Mohammad iAli's victory over the Turks at Damietta in 1803, he constructed the Nahmddiyeh Canal with a view to restore Alexandria" s ancient importance. Damietta thus lost most of its trade, and its decline
was farther accelerated by the foundation of the ports on the Suez Canal.



