444 Route 8. DAMIETTA. Towns of the

The town contains no attractions. The principal mosque is a
huge, shapeless edifice, the only redeeming features of which are
the lofty minarets and the spacious dome. All the houses of more
stories than one are provided with handsomely carved wooden jutties and lattice-work, which differ materially in style from the
mushrebiyehs of Cairo. The principal street, which is upwards of
i M. long, forms the busy and well-stocked bazaar of the place.

An interesting excursion may be made to the mosque of ElGehtnseh, situated near a cemetery, to the N. of the town (seebelow).
The building appears to date from the period of the old town of
Damietta, and has Cutie inscriptions in front. The interior contains numerous columns dating from the Roman period, the bases
of which are about 3ft. below the level of the pavement of the
nave. Two of the columns bear curious inscriptions. Some of the
shafts are of beautiful verde entice, and others of porphyry. The
capitals, including several in the Corinthian style, are partly of
Roman and partly of Byzantine workmanship. Two columns standing on the same base are believed, like those in the Mosque of
rAmr at Cairo, to possess miraculous powers. (Fever-patients, for
example, are said to be cured by licking one of them.) The minaret
is embellished with early Arabian ornamentation.

About 3/4 M. farther from the town is a hollow containing a
cemetery and a number of brick houses. The soil here and on the
slopes of the adjoining hills is of a dark red colour, whence the place
derives its name of Buhr ed-Dem, or'sea of blood'. According to
tradition, 30,000 martyrs of El-Islém were once massacred here.
The neighbouring hills, particularly those on the right, are called
Tell (plur. tuli'tl) el --" Agm, 01", being said to contain
multitudes of human skeletons. Reminiscences of the siege of
Damietta by the Crusaders in 1219, and of the victory gained here
by Mohammed rAli over the Turks in 1803 t are curiously mingled
in the minds of the natives, and have given rise to various unfounded legends. It is not improbable that part of ancient Damietta once stood on the Tell el-'Ayn.

Sportsmen and fishermen will find much to repay them in a visit to
Damietta and Lake Menzaleh (p. A35), 3/; M. distant. The town is built on
both banks of the arm of the Nile, the deposits of which have formed a
terrace-like embankment, sloping down to the deeply indented salt lakes
at the month of the river. In the environs are extensive fields of rice, the
harvest of which takes place in Sept. and Oct. The fields are intersected
in every direction by culling: and canals, which are crossed by numerous bridges for the use of the cattle Cum are extensively reared here,
and the milk and butter of Damietta are the best in Egypt. A walk in
the environs will he found interesting. The fields are pleasantly shaded
at intervals with plantations of Sycamores, Cordia. and other trees.
The ditches are filled with beautiful white and blue water-lilies (Nymphaea Lotus, N. czerulea, and N. stellata) and other aquatic plants. The
larger canals are bordered with lofty reeds, the haunt of the iehncnmon,
which often surprises the traveller by its tameness. Notwithstanding
its girdle of inundated plains, canals, and lakes, Damietta enjoys a.
remarkably healthy climate at all seasons. The atmosphere is never so






