446 Route 8. SATS. Towns of the

be hired at Kafr ez-Zaiyat for 15 piastres per day. For a party it is
.pleasanter and cheaper to make the excursion by boat (easily procured;
fare for two days about 25 fr. ]. The journey by land takes 5hrs., by
Water 3-5 hrs, according to the wind.

The plain watered by the Rosetta arm of the Nile is extremely
fertile. A little to the N. of Kafr ez-Zaiyat the river describes a
long curve; and somewhat farther to the N., on the W. bank, a
little inland, but visible from the water, rise the ruins known as
Ed-Dahariyeh, a series of heaps of debris which mark the site of a
town of considerable size. On the W. bank, farther on, is the
pleasant village of Nakhleh. The village of (on the
E. bank), at which we disembark, lies to the S. of the ruins.

The ancient Sa'is is mentioned in history at a very remote
period, and as early as the 18th Dynasty it was regarded as a cradle
of sacerdotal wisdom. The goddess Neith, whom the Greeks identified with their Athene, was the tutelary deity of the place. She
was one of the maternal divinities, a manifestation of Isis (p. 135 ],
and was named the'great cow' which gave birth to the sum She
was worshipped both by the Egyptians and the Libyans. On the
Roman coins of the Saite Nome is seen a figure of Minerva with
an owl in her right hand and a lance in her left. It was this
identification of Neith with Athene that probably led Pausanias to
suppose that Pallas-Athene originally came from Libya, to which
Sais was frequently considered to belong. According to an ancient
tradition, Athens is said to have been founded by Cecrops of Sais,
andafanciful corroboration oftbemyth is sought for in the fact that
the letters of A-neth-a and Athena are identical. Most of the
Greek scholars who repaired to Egypt for purposes of study went
either to Heliopolis or to Sal's. According to Plate, Solon associated here with the learned men of Egypt, Herodotus obtained
much information here, and the fame of the Sa'ite knowledge of
mysteries was maintained down to a late period. The 26th Dynasty
originated in the city of Neith, and its kings were specially
devoted to that goddess, to whom they erected monuments of great
splendour. Uambyscs also visited Sal's after his conquest of Egypt,
and showed himself favourable to the temple of the goddess and
her rites. It is not known when the town was destroyed. It was
probably an episcopal see at a very early period.

There is now no trace of the famous buildings erected here by
Amasis and others (p. 93), or of the chapel formed of a single
block of granite brought from Elephantine to Sais, which must
have weighed at least 250 tons. The site of the temple of Neith,
which was connected with the royal palace and with a mausoleum
for the Pharaohs of the 26th Dynasty, eannotnowbe identified with
any certainty. The columns with palm-capitals, the tomb of Osiris,
the obelisks, statues, and androsphinxes, mentioned by Herodotus,
have all ontirelydisappeared. The sacred lake, however, on which,
according to Herodotus, mystery-plays were acted at night in






