Northern Delta. CANOPUS. 8. Route. 447

honour of Osiris, is probably identical with a sheet of water to
the N. of a huge wall enclosing an open space, on the E. side of
which the wall is upwards of boo yds. long and nearly 65ft. in
thickness. The outline of the lake was probably once elliptical,
but is now of very irregular form. On its SE. side rise vast heaps
of rubbish, marking the site of the royal palace and the temples
connected with it. It is, however, impossible to trace the outline
of a single building, either here or among the ruins between
the village of Sit el-Hager and the enclosing wall of the Acropolis,
lying to the N. of the cluster of humble fellahin dwellings which
have inherited the proud name of Sa'is in the form Sa. Mariette's
excavations at this spot brought a few antiquities to light, but
led to no discovery of importance.

e. Rosetta.

M M. FROM ALEXANDRIA TO ROSETTA by railway in 21/2 hrs; far-es
33 pias., 13 pies. 10 paras (two trains daily). The station is outside the Porte Moharrum ey, whence the Cairo trains also new start (see
p. 206). - FROM DAMANHi'JR (p. 224) T0 Rosu'r'rn is a journey of one day
only, but the start should be made at an early hour. As far as Fumm
el-Mahznfidiyeh a donkey takes 21/2-3 hrs. (charge about d fit); thence to
Rosetta by boat in 5-7 bra, according to the wind (20-3011; or. including
May, which must be specially bargained for, and return, about double
that sum).

FROM ALEXANDRIA T0 ROSETTA there is a recently opened
railway. skirting the coast, from which short branch-lines are to be
constructed to the various coast fortresses. The famous towns which
lay on this coast in ancient times have entirely disappeared. As far
as Sidi Gaber (p. 223), the second stopping-place, the train runs
parallel with the railway to Cairo, which then diverges to the right,
while our line follows a N.E. direction. The next station of any
importance is [ 61/2 M.) Ramleh (p. 222; the station lies 1/2 M.
to the E. of the town). Stations It2-Molysmmarlhjeh and'Ambet es8iyttt, the latter of which is a considerable village. Near [ 91/2 M.)
Et-Mandara the train enters upon the neck ofland which separates
the Lake of Abukir (Bebirct Miadtyelr) from the Mediterranean, and
reaches (12 M.) Abukir [ G M. to the N.E. of Ramleh), an insignificant village, famous for the naval battle of lst Aug. 1798, in
which the English fleet under Nelson signally defeated the French,
destroying thirteen of their seventeen vessels. The precise site of
the ruins of Heracteopolis and Canopus is unknown. The latter,
which lay 120 stadia from Alexandria, was probably situated a
little to the E. of Abukir. Between that village and an opening in
the neck of land which separates Lake Edku from the sea are some
heaps of ruins which perhaps belonged to the ancient Canopus.

The city of Canopus, which, according to the decree of'i'anis (p. 3131
passed here, was known by the sacred name of Pakol, and by the popular name, still existing in the Comic language, of Kah ea-WO, or
'golden soil', was a very famous place in ancient times. The resemblance
of the name Kahcnnub to Canebus, the helmsman of Menelaus, gave rise












