448 Route 8. ROSETTA. Towns of the

to the Greek tradition thatrthat pilot was interred here. Strabo describes
the pleasure-loving town as follows: -'Canobus is a city which lies 120
stadia from Alexandria, if one goes by land, and is named after the
helmsman of Menelaus who died there. It contains the highly revered
temple of Serapis, which, moreover, works such miracles that even the
most respectable men believe in them, and either sleep in it themselves,
or get others to sleep there for them. Some persons also record the
cures, and others the streets of the oracle dreams experienced there. A
particularly remarkable thing is the great number of parties of pleasure
descending the canal from Alexandria; for day and night the canal
swarms with men and women, who perform music on the flute and
licentious dances in the boats with unbridled merriment, or who, at Cano..
bus itself, frequent taverns situated on the canal and suited for such
amusements and revelry' .--The jars known as'canopi' (p. 301) derive
their name from this place.

On the shore of the semicircular bay of Abulgir are several small
forts, and on the promontory rises alighthouse. The train continues
to traverse the narrow neck of land between the Lake of Ahuhir
and Lake Edku beyond it, on the right, and the Mediterranean on
the left. Stations (20 M.) Et-Illa'adiyeh, near the former Canopic
mouth of the Nile (p. W), and (25 MO Edku, a village situated on
a sand-hill to the right. The train finally traverses a dreary expanse
of sand, and reaches Rosetta (p. 440).

FROM DAMANHI'JR T0 ROSETTA. We ride past several wells and
along the bank of a small canal, traverse some fields, leave the
ruins of [ film ez-Zargan to the right, and in 1% hr. reach the
Muhmfidiych Canal o. 223), which lies between lofty banks, and
is traversed by barges and small steamers plying between Alexandria and Rosetta. Aftera ride of about 10 min. more, we observe,
on the opposite bank of the canal, a long, desolate-looking, onestoricd house, which was used for the accommodation of the workman employed in cleaning the canal in the reign of Sa'id Pasha.
The canal, which connects Alexandria with Cairo and the Delta,
and at the same time supplies the former city with water from the
Nile (see p. 215), was constructed by Mohammad'Ali in 1819 at a
cost of71/2 millionfraucs. In the execution ofthe workhe employed
the forced labour of r250,000 fellahin, of whom no fewer than 20,000
are said to have perished from disease and over-exertion. We follow the bank of the canal, and about "/2 M. from Fumm el-Alahmfidiyeh reach two rows of remarkably line trees, under the
shade of which we continue our route. Near Fumm elAUalynthltyeh,
where the canal receives its supply of water from the Rosetta arm
of the Bile, its banks are lined with solid brick masonry, and at
this point we observe a number of barges awaiting the opening of
the lock-gates which separate the canal from the river. The engines
by means of which an impetus is given to the water so as to cause it
to flow towards Alexandria are four in number, each being of
100 horse power. The large and handsome engine-rooms may he
visited by the traveller. Adjacent is a workshop for repairs.

The hanksofthellosetta arm are monotonous, but are enlivened
by a considerable number of towns. The first place on the right








