W Delta. ROSET'I'A. 8. Route. 449

bank is Simlydu, with ahandsome minaret. Opposite toitis DEM }.
The angular pieces of wood at the top of the minarets are used for
hearing lamps onfestive occasions. Numerous pumps are observed
on the banks. The next places on the left are f1finyet-es-cSartd and
mm, and on the right Shemshir; then, on the left Adrmelr, with
a palace erected by Sa'id Pasha, and on the right JIelfibis. Farther
towards the N., lech lies a little to the left, and on the right are
K'uni, Minyet el-Murshid, and the important-looking little town of
PoerinduU. On the same bank are Yeggtrtn and the village of
Ntsha, and opposite, to the left, is the town of Maltallet cal-Emir,
crowned with two minarets. On the right we next observe Paras,
and on the left Shenu'ismeh and Eb-Klum-tttd; then, on the right,
El-Ba.sreh, and on the left Et-chiyeh. The citadel of Rosetta
(, Reshid), usually known as the Kat'a ('castle') next comes in sight.
Near it, also on the left, we observe a fine grove of palm-trees
rising close to the town, and the hill of Abu Mandfir [ see below).

Rosetta, Arabic Resizid La Coptic name, Ti Rushit signifying'city of joy'i), the ancient Bolbitine, with 19,392 iuhab.,
almost exclusively natives, lies at the month of the Bolbitinic arm
of the Nile, which was also called the Tally (Prim). As the Rosetta
Stone (see below) was found near Fort St. Julien, t M. to the N.,
it is supposed that the ancient town lay in that neighbourhood.
--r--There is no inn at Rosetta, but, if necessary, the traveller may
apply for accommodation to the hospitable Franciscan monks.

HISTORY. Little is known regarding the early history of the town.
It was founded on the site of the ancient Bolbitine, and early in the
middle ages attained considerable mercantile importance. It continued
to flourish down to the beginning of the present century, but its prosperity
declined rapidly in consequence of the construction of the Mahmfidiyeh
Canal and the improvement of the harbour of Alexandria. The rice
trade of Rosetta is of considerable importance, and shipbuilding is carried on with some success.

The town possesses numerous gardens, which yield excellent
fruit. The hill of Abtl Mandi", to the S of the town, which commands a line view, is supposed by some topographers to have been
the site of the ancient Bolbitine. The interesting streets contain
many small, but substantial houses in a peculiar, half-European
style, with projecting stories and Windows towards the outside.
Numerous columns from edifices of the heathen and Christian
periods, many of them of granite and some of marble, are seen
lying in various open spaces, particularly one of considerable size
near the river, and a number of others are built into the houses.
The very spacious Mosque of Sakhli'm is embellished with many
ancient columns, but is otherwise uninteresting. The fortifications
to the N. of the town are not shown except by permission the
commandant. In 1799 M. Bouchard, a French captain of engineers,
discovered in Fort St. Julian the celebrated Rosetta Stone, which
afforded European scholars a key to the language and writing of the
ancient Egyptians, which had been lost for nearly M centuries,

's Egypt i. 2nd Ed. 29



