W

Th Rosetta Stone, now preserved in the British Museum. is a state
of black basalt, the corners of which are unfortunately damaged, bearing
three different inscriptions on its face. The subject is the same in each
case, but the first is in the sacred hieroglyphic language and character
of the ancient Egyptians, the second in the demotic, or popular, language and
Writing' letters, are well preserved,
but of the 14 hieroglyphic lines all on the right side and twelve on the
left are seriously damaged. The subject of the inscription is a decree of
the priests in honour of Ptolemy V. Epiphanes (B. C. 204481), issued on
27th March. 195, when the king was still a boy of fourteen. The highsounding titles of the king, the date, and the place (Memphis) where the
resolution was passed are first set forth in eight lines. Next follow in
twenty-eight lines the motives which induced the hierarchy to issue the
decree, - viz. the numerous benefits conferred by the king on his country,
the gifts presented by him to the clergy and the temples, the reduction
and remission of taxes, the indemnity granted to criminals, his leniency
towards the rebels who had'returned to peace", this vigorous resistance
to enemies approaching by land and by sea and to the town of Lycopolis,
his prudent conduct on the occasion of an inundation which took place
in the eighth year of his reign, and his liberal contributions towards the
support of the sacred animals and the repair and adornment of the
temples. The remainder of the inscription gives the resolution itself, to
the effect that a statue, a chapel of gold, and an image of the king should
be placed in every temple, decorated on feast-days, and revered; and
farther. that the decree. inscribed on a slab of hard stone in hieroglyphic,
demotic, and Greek writing should be placed in every temple of the
first and second rank. - The last paragraph of the Greek inscription informs us that we shall find the two translations. one in the sacred, the
other in the popular language of the Egyptians, adjacent to it. The first
step towards deciphering these last was to endeavour to discover the
alphabet of each kind of character. The demotic part was first scrutinised,
and M. S. de Sacy and He Aekerbhrd, a Swedish scholar, first succeeded
in determining the groups which contained the word Ptolemy. In the
hieroglyphic part (p. 110) some of the groups were framed, and, as had
been ascertained from the Roman obelisks and other sources before the
finding of the Rosetta Stone, it was inferred that these were times of
kings. Dr. Th. Young, an Englishman, and M. F. Champollion, the
French Egyptologist, then succeeded. independently of each other, the
former in 1819, the latter in 1822, in discovering the missing alphabet by
means of a comparison of the names of the different kings. Champollion
afterwards prosecuted his researches with such marvellous success, that
he justly merits the highest rank among the decipherers of hieroglyphics.
Taking the framed group which recurred most frequently on the Rosetta
Stone to be Ptolemaios. as the Greek inscription indicated, he compared
it with other framed symbols on an obelisk found at Philae contemporaneously with the Rosetta inscription. The symbols on the obelisk, which
occurred in connection with the name of Ptolemy, he conjectured to signify Cleopatra, as the number of letters also indicated. He then proceeded to compare the two groups:
(l) Q q p he took to he Ptolemy,
c: C:

. A q E » f): a

(2 ] Q U k Cleopatra.
_% O Q

The first symbol in the second of these groups is a triangle, which he
supposed to represent k, and which does not occur in the first group
[ Ptolemy ]. The second symbol in the second group, a lion, he took to
be I, and he was confirmed in this view by the fact that the same sym
450 Route 8. ROSETTA.








