Northern Delta. TANIS. 8. Route. 451

ho ] occupied the fourth place in the first group. The third symbol in
the second group, a reed, according to his hypothesis, would he e, and
this again was confirmed by the two reeds in Ptolemaius, representing
the Greek diphthong he The fourth symbol in the second group, a cord
with a loop, was also, according to his expectation, found to occupy the
third place in the first. So, too, the square, representing p in the second group was found to correspond with the first letter of the first
group. The sixth letter of the second group, a bird, did not occur in
the first group, but was repeated in its proper place in the second. The
seventh sign in the second group, a hand, would be t, but the same letter
was represented in the word Ptolemy by a semicircle. This discrepancy
might have misled the decipherer, had he not rightly conjectured that
two different symbols might possibly exist for the same letter, and that
the semicircle at the end of Cleopatra represented the Coptic feminine
article t, which, as he afterwards found, is placed at the end of many
female names. The eighth letter in the second frame he took to be r,
and this letter did not occur in the first frame. By this process the nine
letters of Cleopatra's name, or ten including the article, were ascertained,
while the different letters in the case of Ptolemy were afterwards verilied
by comparing them with the names of nth 3, and particularly with

_% --" ~ 0
that of Alexander the tut-at QM The
U Eh--..
other steps in the task of deciphering the hieroglyphics have already
been noticed at p. 1.

f. $ 5.11 (Tunis).

A visit to the ruins of Tunis is not only somewhat tedious and ironblesome, but will not repay the ordinary traveller, as they are now covered
by sand. The finest relics discovered there have, niorcm er, been carried
oil to grace the museum of Bdlak. Most travellers will require a d111gonlan, a tent, and rugs for the journey.

Down to the middle of January, that is before the Nile is too low, the
traveller may proceed by the Mu'izz Canal from the AM Shem ]; station
(p. 439) to Sin. Enquiries as to the state of the water should previously
he made at Zakfizik. The train from lak1'iz1k arrives at 1.27 p m. at AIM
Shelp" t where the party embarks in a. heat previously ordered by the
dragoman. San may be reached the same day (7 5 hrs, but more in the
reverse direction), and the night should be spent in the boat The boats
are large, but dirty. The charge for the voyage to San is about 45 fig,
and for the journey there and back about $ 0 fin, including stoppages,
which must he specially stipulated for. It the water in the canal is too
low for navigation the traveller should proceed to the Abtt Kebir station
only (p. 438), and there take the branch- line to (911) lell Fem, a village
on the left bank of the Nile, which is reached at 3. 30 p. m. On the opposite bank of the canal, about 1 M. from the ruins of the ancient Phaemsa,
and near the modern jfii el-'Aee, is a cotton factory belonging to an
Egyptian hey. Mix Robertson, the manager, an English engineer, accords
a kind reception to travellers

The ruins of Tell Fakes, the site of the ancient Pizacusa (meseasm,
@ uxdsom), which was once the capital of the Arabian home, and of Goshen and is called Phakos, or, without the article, Kos, hy the Copts,
are interesting to Egyptologists only. The district of Goshen (p. 411)
and the ancient city bear the same name. The scanty remains bear a.
few inscriptions, some of which date from the period of Ramses 11.

Donkeys and a guide should be ordered at Nit el-rAzz in the evening,
and the journey continued on the following morning.

The route from Abt Kebir traverses fertile fields, chiefly planted with cotton, and frequently intersected by ditches and cuttings,

through which the traveller must ride or wade. This tract was
20*



