I Northern Delta. TANIS. 8. 6 Route. 453

nome of Lower Egypt, and lay on the arm of the Nile named after it,
the modern Illu'izz Canal, with which many ancient legends are associated. Thus it was by this arm of the river that the body of Typhon
(Seth), when slain by Osiris, floated down to the sea. On this account
the Tanitic arm of the Nile is said He have been an object of hatred to
the Egyptians, but it is more probable that their dislike was caused by
the fact that Seth, under the name of Ba'al. was worshipped on its banks
by the natives of the district. Among the other gods specially revered
here were Amman of Thebes, with Khunsu and Muth, Turn neb-On, or
lord of Heliopolis. aad Horus along with Isis and Sekar Osiris. The
favourite deities, however, were Tum and Khunsn, the god of the moon,
who in one of his aspects was identified by the Greeks with their
Heracles. The Egyptian priests who performed the rites of the'gods of
Ramses" in this town, are also called by the monuments Khar-tot, or
'Warriors', a name which is identical with the Hebrew name Khartnmmim
given in the Bible to the Egyptian magicians who attempted to imitate
the miracles wrought by Moses (Exodus v, ix.

We learn from the Bible (Numbers xi. 22) that Tanis was founded
seven years later than Hebron, which, however, is mentioned as having
been a very ancient place as early as the time of Abraham. This notice
of the place was perhaps copied into the sacred writ of the Israelites
from some earlier Phoenician work. At all events it is probable that it
was founded so far back as the prima'val monarchy hy Phoenician mariners, and that it then lay much nearer to the sea than at the present
day. The mud of the Nile has formed the broad piece of land which
separates the site of Tanis from Lake Menzaleh. In the Scthroitic nome,
adjacent to Tanis, lay lleracleopolis (pp. 87, 412), the cradle of the kings
of the 9th and 10th lleracleopolite Dynasties. monarchs of foreign origin,
who reigned in Lower Egypt until expelled by the 11th and 12th Dynasti Munnmenu were erected at Tau by Amenemha and Usertesen
(p. 87), but a statue of the 13th Dynasty found here may have been
brought from elsewhere at a later period. When the Hyksos overrau
Egypt, they found at Tanis a population of a me kindred to their
own. While Almris tilauftr), on the E. frontier of the empire, formed
the basis of their military operations, they constituted Tanis their capital. Here they employed Egyptian artists, who executed sculptures for
them in the conventional style, faithfully pourtraying the features of their
conquerors ('1). 993). After the expulsion of the Hyksos, Tanis was neglected hy the Egyptian kings, but it was again specially favoured by
the great monarchs of the 19th Dynasty. Soil 1.. Ramses II., and Merenptah, the Pharaoh of the Exodus, frequently held their courts here,
and even condescentled to participate in the rites of Seth peculiar to the
place. At the same time they embellished the city so liberally. and promoted its prosperity so effectually, that it is dos bed by several papyri
as being a particularly beautiful and pleasant place, and the name is
therefore written xmm, tie.'the beautiful, the agreeable', by tater writers. In the time of Isaiah and Ezekiel (8th and Gth cent. respectively)
Zoan must still have been a very important place.'Surely the princes
of loan are fools, the counsel of the wise counsellers of Pharaoh is
become brutish' (Isaiah xix. 11). Before this period the city had surrendered to the armies of the A T inns,'3 we also learn from the cuneiform inscriptions, which mention Tanis in the time of Sardanapalus as
Sanu, and its prince Pa-ta-big-ti tPctubiLStes ]. Under the 26th Dynasty,
which favoured foreigners, Zoan again prospered; but in the reign of
Amasis, who patroniscd Suits and the Greek Naucratis in preference to







































miracles before Pharaoh (Ramses 11.), and from which the Israelites
started on their wanderings. The now bleak and sterile plain around
Zoan is called by the innnunients Sokhot Zena, or plain of loan. It was
not till the time of Ilauises 11., when a new town with temples and
shrines was erected adjacent to the ancient fortress of lot fry Zorn (see
above), that the place was called l'i-Ramses t'city of Ramses').



