451 Route 8. TA Towns of the

Tunis, Mendes. and Bullastis, thc half-Semitic cities of the Delta, it began
to decline pcrccptibly, although slowly. Flavius Josephus calls the place
a tramp-1;, or small town only, but Strabo and Stephanus of Byzantium
call it'the great". In the course of the frequent invasions in Egypt from
the E., Tanis was usually the first place which suffered after Pelusium,
so that its ancient monuments were thus gradually destroyed, and the
edicts of Theodosius contributed not a little to the same result. The
work of destruction was finally completed in consequence of Turkish
misrule, and'the great Tanis' has thus dwindled down to the fishing
village of Sin. the sole attraction of which consists in the scanty ruins
in the neighbourhood.

Ruins of Tents. The wall, built of bricks of Nile mud, enclosing the temple of Ramses 11., the sanctuary of which perhaps
existed as early as the primaeval monarchy, was 250 paces long and
about 150 wide. The temple stood in the centre of the town, and
the latter lay on the slopes of hills which had been thrown up on
both sides of the temple, partly for the protection of the temple
itself, and partly to raise the houses above the level of the inundation (p. 410). Ascending a slight eminence close to the village,
we first reach a large and much mutilated colossal figure in granite.
We next come to a hollow made in the course of Mariette's
excavations, with solid substructions of huge blocks of limestone,
in the side of which there is a small chapel. Farther to the E.
another and larger fragment ofrninwas lately excavated, but, like
most of the remains mentioned below, it has again been covered
up with sand. Among the broken figures in black basalt lying
here is a female torso, a singular peculiarity of which is that the
left breast is much larger than the right. A damaged colossal
figure, prostrate on the ground, is worthy of notice,'as it shows
that even granite monuments were painted. The flesh parts of
these Tanitic coloured statues were painted bright pink, or almost
red, the eyebrows reddish brown, and the'halantika', or headdress
resembling a wig, yellow of various shades. Most of the statues
and blocks bear the name of Ramses II. The finest of those of the
early monarchy (such as the colossal statue of Usertesen at Berlin)
are now deposited in different museums. The name of Merenptah
is also observed on a number of ruins, and so also is the cartouche
of Sheshenk, or Sesonchis "L, of the 22nd Dynasty, of Bubastis,
but only on those architectural fragments and statues which owe their
origin to llamsesll. Alittle farther to the E. was probably situated
the hypostyle, or colonnaded hall of the temple, as is evidenced
by the broken columns lying on the ground, including several huge
shafts of granite, crowned with finely executed palm capitals. At
the bottom of the opening made by the last excavations, lie shattered obelisks, colossal statues, capitals of columns, shafts, and
bases, in grand confusion. All these fragments are of granite,
grauwacke, or other hard stone. On a blackish figure in a sitting
posture is inscribed the name of Ramses 1 ]., who is here called
'lord of the diadems",'proteetor of Egypt', and'destroyer of foreign
nations' The shaft of a huge column also bears the still traceable
















