. Northern Delta. TANlS. 8. Route. 455

name of one of his successors. About 20 paces farther on, a large
broken obelisk lies prostrate on the ground. Ten other obelisks
near it, in a still more shattered condition, testify to the ancient
glory of the city. The loftiest of them measured 46 and 49 ft.
in height, and nearly 5ft. in thickness. Some of them consisted of
very dark, and others of tight-lured syenite. Even the great
temple of imperial Thebes contained fewer obelisks than this vast
I sanctuary. All these edifices owed their origin to Ramses II. The
museum at Bfilak contains the finest of the Hyksos sphinxes
(p. 298) found here, while four others, more or less mutilated, still
remain here. Besides these there is a sphinx in the Egyptian
style, dating from the 19th Dynasty. The visitor should also
notice an interesting little chapel, resembling a sarcophagus, and
composed of a single block of a granulous kind of alabaster. The
cavity is not much wider than the thickness of the sides. At the
back is represented the triad of Ammon, Turn, and Nut. Another
colossal statue here, composed of rose-coloured or almost purple
granite, and a lion-headed statue of Sekhet were also erected by
Ramsesll. Adjacent is a second statue of Ramses H., executed in
a flinty kind of sandstone, and coloured Farther on, towards the
S., we next observe a large granite'stole' with finely executed
inscriptions, still easily legible, although damaged, mentioning a
mode of reckoning dates which has been met with nowhere else.
They are in honour of a distinguished official of the time of Ramses 11., and bear the date of 400 years after the Pharaoh Asetpehti, a Hyksos monarch. A considerable way beyond this monument is another excavated hollow containing fragments of a
temple, including several remarkably fine columns with curious
palm capitals. These capitals, which, like the columns themselves,
are of rose-coloured granite, are narrower at their bases than the
shafts on which they rest. All the columns, now overthrown, are
remarkable for slenderness of form, and the bases on which they
stood were no less than 3ft. in height, being higher than any
others yet discovered in Egypt. Towards the S.E. are several
round blocks, probably dating, according to the two inscriptions,
from the period of the Ptolemies. Leaving the hollow containing
the palm columns, we ascend without difficulty to the tomb of a
shékh which commands the best survey of the ruins of Tanis.
Around the grey plateau of the town rise a series of hills, nearly
forming a circle, and once covered with dwelling-houses. The ruins
of the temple form a mass of cubical blocks and black and red
fragments of obelisks, while the heaps of rubbish are mingled
with innumerable chips of broken pottery. The empty houses
resemble caverns, and show that the Tanites were contented with
dwellings of very moderate size. The limestone'stelo' discovered
here by Dr. Lepsius in 1866, known as the Tablet of Tunis, or Decree
of Canopus, is now preserved in the museum at new; (p. 313).



