r Ltuatiun. FAYUM. 9. Route. 457

luxuriant crops for which the province is famous; while the westernmost part chiefly consists of sterile desert land To the w. and N. of the
Birket el- Kurun rise precipitous limestone hills, beyond which lies the
immense sandy desert of Sahara. The Fayum must have been reclaimed
from the desert at a very early period, probably during the early empire,
in the reign of Amenemha Ill. as monuments of his period indicate
that he was perhaps the first of the Pharaohs who sought to regulate
the whole course of the Nile. On the Upper Nile Prof. Lepsius has
found Kilometers constructed by that monarch, and in the Fayl'zm, on
the site of the Labyrinth. a number of blocks of stone inscribed with his
name. The Greeks called him Amino, or Moeris, and believed that the lake
known to them as Lake Maeris', which they regarded as a marvel of
engineering skill, was named after him. The word mart, however, is
the Egyptian for lake or overflow, so that the great basin of the Fayl'im
was simply'the lake'; and it was from his exertions in connection with
the irrigation works that Amenemha obtained the name of ltlceris \Ve
learn from several inscriptions and from a papyrus roll treating of the
Feyt'im, that the province was known in the time of the Pharaohs as Ta
5112!, or the lake- land and that Lake llloeris was called han-t, signifying
the discharge or posterior lake. On its bank rose the celebrated Labyrinth, which was probably renewed by the Bubastite monarchs of the
22nd Dynasty. About the same period the town of Crocodilopolis, situated on Lake Mun-is, and afterwards called Arsinoe' after the wife of Ptolemy Philadelphus, was so extended and embellished by Osorkon I. that
it is called the'city 0f Osorkoh L' in the inscription on the celebrated
stole of Piankhi. The whole province was at first called the lake- land,
then the district of Crocodilopolis, and lastly the Arsinoite Name. The

. must highly revered here was the crouodile-headed Sebek, the reptile sacred to whom was carefully tended in Lake Moeris At the same
time the voracious and dangerous monster, notwithstanding the reverence
paid to it. on account of its connection with the inundation, was also
regarded as Typhonic, and the Crocodilopolitan nome was therefore
passed over in the lists of names .--At the period preceding that of the
Psarntikides of the 26th Dynasty the Labyrinth appears to have been used
as a hall for great imperial assemblies. At the period of the Ptolemies
and the Running the products of the Fayfim were much extolled.'The
Arsinuite Nome', says Straho,'is the most remarkable of all, both on account of its scenery and its fertility and cultivation. For it alone is
planted with large, full-grown, and richly productive olive-trees, and the
oil is good when carefully prepared; those who are neglectful may indeed obtain oil in abundance, but it has a had smell. In the rest of
Egypt the olive » tree is never seen, except in the gardens of Alexandria,
where under favourable circumstances they yield olives, but no oil. Vines,
corn, podded plants, and many other products also thrive in this district
in no small abundance" .--qtrabos description is still applicable at the
present day. The oranges and mandarins, peaches. olives, figs, cactus
fruit, pomegranates, and grapes grown here are much esteemed, and the
beautiful, rich-coloured red roses of the gardens of the Fayfim, which
were once so lavishly strewn at the banquets of Cleopatra, still thrive
here. At the station of Medinet el-Fayfim small phials of attar of roses,
of inferior quality, are frequently offered for sale. Isma'il Pasha devoted
special attention to this favoured part of his dominions. The fields, which
are watered by means of wheels of peculiar construction, yield rice, sugar,
cotton, flax, and hemp, besides the usual cereals. The beginning of November is probably the season at which the traveller will obtain the most
distinct idea of the fertile character of the district. - The Inhabitants
are felltllnn, 01' tillers of the soil and Beduins. To the latter race he.
Many of the peasants also call themselves "Arabs, and the wealthier of
them are generally well mounted.

The RAILWAY JOURNEY is preferable to the voyage up the Nile
in point of speed, and the passenger obtains a good view of the


























