458 Route J. MEDiNET 1ag-yAvi'Jiu. mam.

left bank of the river, and sometimes of the opposite bank also.
The Nile with its lateen sails is frequently visible to the left, while
on the right we obtain glimpses of the Pyramids, rich corn-fields,
canals, water wheels, palm-groves, and villages with tall dovecots
in rapid succession. The journey has already been described as
far as (14 M.) Bedmshén (see p. 372). We next observe on the
right the pyramids of Dahshtr and the so-called false pyramid of
Mfidfim (see p. 467), Kafr ed-Dabai, Kafr el-'Avts.t,
Kafr Amer, and Gizeh are unimportant stations.

51 M. el-Wasta (post and telegraph office) lies in the midst of
a large palm-grove, a few hundred yards to the left of the line, in
the direction of the Nile. Travellers coming from Cairo change
carriages here; stay of 20 min. in the forenoon, 17 min. in the
afternoon.

The branch-line to the Fayfnu runs towards the W., across
cultivated land, to the village of Abu Reich, beyond which it traverses a desert tract for 35 min.7 and then crosses the low and
bleak Libyan chain of hills, reaching its highest point at a level of
190 ft. above the sea. We then descend, cross the Ruhr el- Warden,
which flows towards the Bahr Yfisuf from the N.. and then the watercourse of el-Bats (p. 460), and near the station of (19 M.) cl-Adweh
Coo no, on the right, we again perceive cultivated land. On the
left is a cemetery with the dilapidated tombs of several shékhs.
Numerous palm-branches are placed by the tombstones as tokens of
affection. On the right stretches an ancient dyke, which once may
have belonged to the embankment of Lake Mums o. 462). We
pass the station of ctivsulh, traverse rich arable land, and soon
reach (231/2 M.)
Medinet el-Fayum, the'town of the lake-district", situated to
the S. of the site of Crocodilopolis-Arsinoé, the ancient capital of
the province (Hotel du Fayot" trn, [ 03. daily; with a letter of introduction from Cairo quarters may also be obtained at the American
mission-station 01' at the house of the Italian cure). It contains
about 40,000inl1ah.I and is a not unpleasing specimen of an Egyptian town. Between the station and the town we observe a peculiar,
undershot sékiyeh, or water-wheel driven by the water itself. The
very long covered bazaar contains nothing of special interest. The
traveller, even if unprovided with an introduction, should pay a
visit to the nind1r "ho will protect him from extortion in case of
any difficulty with the Owners of horses and others (comp. p. 34).
A broad arm of the Bahr Yfisnf (p. 456) flows through the middle
of the town. The mosque of Kan Bey, on the N. side of the town,
now somewhat dilapidated, is the only interesting building of the
kind. It contains numerous antique columns, brought from the
ancient Arsinoii, some of which have shafts of polished marble with
Arabic inscriptions, and Corinthian and other capitals. Below the
mosque, on the bank of the Ruhr Yfisnf, are some remains of ancient






