F"

Fayz'tm. BIHAMU. J. Route. 459

masonry. No ancient inscriptions have been discovered here, but
the walls of some of the houses contain fragments which must
have belonged to ancient temples. At the W. end of the town the
Baht Yfisuf radiates into numerous branches, which water the
country in every direction. The dilapidated mosque of (lo, situated
here forms a picturesque foreground.

To the N. of the town are the extensive ruins of CrocodilopolisArsinoe, which has been entirely destroyed. The site is now called
Kthn Firm. Many antiquities, both of the Roman and the Christian
period, have been found here, including numerous small terracotta
lamps and many thousand fragments of papyri, intermixed with
pieces of parchment. Most of the papyri are Greek (among them
fragments of Homer, Euripides, Thucydides, also of a Christian
catechetical book), many are Arabic from the 2nd cent. of the Hegira down to 943 A.D.; and others are in Coptic, Pehlevi, Sassanide-Persian, and Meroitic-Ethiopian characters. Several fragments
in hieratic and hieroglyphic characters, the oldest from the time of
Ramses 111. (about 1300 13.0.), have also been discovered. As the
writings are for the most part tax-papers, it has been supposed that
they belonged to a tax office of the town of Crocodilopolis, where
old papyri also were used. A large number of the papyri found
here were acquired by Consul Travers for the Berlin Museum. and
even a larger number by Theod. Graf and Archduke Rainer for the
Austrian Museum of Art and Industry at Vienna. The very extensive cemetery of the town, with its picturesque tombstones, covers
part of the site of the ancient city; the highest of the mounds of
rubbish command a survey of the whole of the Fayfiin. At the N.
end of the ruins, about 11/4 M. from Medineh, 1i. Schweinfnrth
discovered the remains of a large temple with a pylon, in front of
which is a sitting figure of Amellemha L, the founder of the 12th
Dyn., and inside several slabs with the name of Ramses the Great.
A head With Hyksos features, new in the museum of Gizeh, has
also been found here. According to Mr. Flinders Petrie, the temple
proper, which was 490 ft. wide and had a double colonnade, belongs to the 26th Dynasty.

The village of Bihamu, about' H. to the N. of Medineh, was
doubtless once situated on the bank of Lake Moeris. It still contains
some shapeless ruins of ancient origin destitute of inscription, but supposed to he the remains of the pyramids which according to Herodotus
once stood in the lake. They are now called Kursi I'm-WM. or chair of
Pharaoh, and resemble dilapidated altars rising above other fragments of
solid masonry. If they were once pyramids, the greater part of them
must have been removed, as the walls are new but slightly inclined
inwards. Distinct traces of the water in which they once stood are to
be seen on their bases, and they are still surrounded by remains of
walls, the purpose of which is unknown.

In the fields near Ehgig, or Rom, 2% Di. to the S.W. ufMedineh, lies
a fine obelisk, broken into two parts, which mnsthavc once been at least
46 ft. in height (route to it rough and dirty). Like other obelisks, it is.
horizontally, ot' oblong rectangular shape, and its summit is rounded.
The inscriptions, which are damaged at many places, inform us that the






