401) Route 9. HAWARA. Faymn.

monument was erected by Usertesen I.', who also founded the obelisk
of Heliopolis (p. 3310, and belonged to the same family (12th Dye.) as
Amcnemha 111., the founder of the Labyrinth. - A visit to Bihamu
and Ebgig is chiefly interesting to archaeologists, and perhaps to botanists also.

Exctms10Ns. A whole day is required for a visit to the Pyramid
of Hun- { halt and the Labyrinth (horse 10, donkey 5 fr.) The route
leads at first for 3/4 hr. along the bank of the Baht Yusuf. The first
village of any importance is Uhafch. Our path traverses well cultivatcd land with numerous water-wheels. The corn and cotton
fields are shaded by numerous sycamores, lebbeks, palms, and
other trees. About 1/2 hr. from Uhafeh, and beyond two smaller
villages, we reach a bridge of ancient brick masonry. Traversing
the slightly undulating tract a little farther, we reach the Balm
Beta Jlft C'river without water ], also called el-Bats, a deep challncl, extending in a wide Gun and terminating near the NE. end
of the liirket el-lgurfi11 (p.465). In winter the water, which trickles down from its lofty banks, forms a few scanty pools. At the
bottom of the channel grow reeds and tamarisks. The S. bank
rises at places nearly perpendicularly to a height of 26 ft., so that
the sequence of the strata of the soil is distinctly observable. We
now ascend the plateau (the highest in the province, 88 ft. above
the sea level) on which lies Hawfiret el-Kasab or Hawdret elMulrta, a considerable village, with a mosque (reached in Wahr.
from Mediuet el--l'ayi'im). The traveller may apply to the Shékh-elleled [ prefect of the village) for a guide to the pyramid ofllawiua.
"the water is high, and the canals have to be avoided, we have
to make a circuit of nearly 2 hrs. to the Labyrinth, but by riding
through the water, where necessary, it may be reached in 3/4 hour.

The longer route is preferable, as it passes several relics of
antiquity. A little beyond the village rises the bridge of Ifamifir
cl-Agani, the ten buttresses of which rest on a foundation of massive stone. We continue to ride along an ancient embankment, and
thus reach the J.futa.santa structure, which consists of a terrace of
six carefully jointed steps of large and well--hewn blocks, but bears
no inscription whatever. "'0 cross the Bahr el- WaroMn, which
now intersects the ruins near the Pyramid of llawarah, and which
is sometimes called by the Arabs Bohr el-Mclclth or Ruhr esh-Qherlsi,
i.e. river of the East. On the E. side lies the mass of buildings,
which, according to Lepsius, was probably the Labyrinth (see below). In order to obtain a survey of these interesting ruins the
traveller is recommended to ascend at once the Pyramid of Ha.wara. This consists of unbnrut bricks of Nile mud mixed with straw
(romp. p. 370'), and, when its sides were perfect, covered an area
or upwards of' 116 sq. yards. It has been ascertained that the nucleus ol' the structure is a natural mass ol'rock, b'0 It in height. The
dilapidated summit is easily reached in a few minutes by a flight of
well-worn steps. The entrance to the pyramid, on the S. side, was







,






