Fayem. LABYRINTH. 9. Route. 461

discovered in 1889 by Mr. Flinders Petrie. The tomb chamber
is 22 ft. long, 8 ft. wide, and 6 ft. high; it was covered with three
large slabs of stone and contained two sarcophagi, one of them of
polished sandstone without inscription, and fragments of an alabaster vase with the name of Amcnemha Ill. The chamber was
filled with water to a depth of 3 ft.

Towards the S. we observe a congeries of chambers and passages
of unburnt bricks, bounded by the Bahr esh-Sherlsi, and pronounced
by Lepsius to be the right side of the Labyrinth, and the only part
of it which is to some extent preserved. On the other side of the
Pyramid there was doubtless a similar collection of rooms which has
now disappeared; and several other structures beyond them, of which
traces still remain, must have once existed there. The whole Labyrinth must have been in the shape of a horseshoe. Between the wing
of the Labyrinth which still exists, and that which has disappeared,
lies an extensive space strewn with broken pottery, in the middle
of which are large fragments of a magnificent ancient temple. The
base of the shaft of a small papyrus column, and a capital of the same
order, both in the red stone of Assuan, with sculptured stalks and
foliage, are worthy of notice Some blocks disinterred here bearing
the name of Amenemha ill. have again been covered with sand.
Several large blocks of limestone are also observed in the middle of
this large court of the Labyrinth. The inscriptions are almost entirely destroyed, but faint traces of painting, and the symbols o0

(aa) and (u), are still recognisable. From the traces still ex
isting, the whole structure would appear to have occupied an area
of 8800 sq. yds., and the large inner court an area of about 60 acres.

The Ancient Labyrinth. According to Brugsch, the Greek name Labyrinthos, which has been differently interpreted, is derived from'erpa',
or'elpa-rohnnt", i. e. the'Temple of the mouth of the Lake'. The inscriptions found here by Lepsius prove that it was founded by Amenemha III. of the 12th Dynasty. Herodotus declares that the Labyrinth, which was afterwards reckoned as lone of the wonders of the
world", was so vast as to surpass all the buildings of the Greeks taken
together and even the Pyramids themselves. For the best description
we are indebted to Strabo, who visited the Labyrinth in person. He
says:'There is also the Labyrinth here, a work as important as the
Pyramids, adjoining which is the tomb of the king who built the Labyrinth. After advancing about 3040 stadia beyond the first entrance of
the canal, there is a table-shaped surface, on which rise a small town
and a vast palace, consisting of as many royal dwellings as there were
formerly homes. There is also an equal number of halls, bordered with
columns and adjoining each other, all being in the same row, and forming one building, like a long wall having the halls in front of it. The
entrances to the halls are opposite the wall. In front of the entrances
are long and numerous passages which have winding paths running
through them, so that the ingress and egress to each hall is not
practicable to a stranger without a guide. It is a marvellous fact that
each of the ceilings of the chambers consists of a single stone, and
also that the passages are covered in the same way with single slam
or extraordinary size, neither wood nor other building material having
been employed. On ascending the roof, the height of which is ine, on..






