462 Route J. LAKE Menus. Fayt'un.

siderable, as there is only one story, we observe a stone surface con «
sisting of large slabs. Descending again, and looking into the halls, we may
observe the whole series borne by twenty-seven monolithic, columns. The
walls also are constructed of stones of similar size. At the end of this
structure, which is more than a stadium in length, is the tomb, consisting of a square pyramid, each side of which is four plethra (400 ft.) in
length and of equal height. The deceased, who is buried here, is called
Ismandcs. It is also asserted that so many palaces were built, because it
was the custom for all the homes, represented by their magnates, with
their priests and victims, to assemble here to offer sacrifice and gifts to the
gods, and to deliberate on the most important concerns. Each home
then took possession of the hall destined for it. Sailing about a hundred
stadia beyond this point, we next reach the town of Arsinoé', etc. This
description of Strabo is confirmed by the contents of two papyri, one of
which is in the museum of Gizeh, the other in private possession tMr.
Hood). The deities of 66 districts are enumerated here, 24 of whom her
long to Upper Egypt. 20 to Lower Egypt, and 2?. to the Fayfim.

It is very doubtful whether we should consider these buildings
of Nile bricks as remains of the ancient Labyrinth, or rather as
tombs. Certainly nothing is left that recalls in any way the splendour of the old'wonder of the world'. Except some blocks of limestone, nothing remains of the extensive structures once erected

here, save the pyramid'at the end of the labyrinth'.

To the N. of the pyramid Mr. Flinders Petrie discovered some mummy
coffins with carefully painted heads (now in London). Of still greater
value are the portraits found at el-Rubaydt, 13 M. to the NE. of Medinct cl~Fayum, which were purchased and brought to Europe by t Theodore Graf.

Lake Mums. The object of Lake eris, which has long since been
dried up, was to receive the superfluous water in the ease of too high
an inundation, and to distribute its contents over the fields when the
overflow was insufficient. Strabo describes Lake Moeris in the following terms:'Owing to its size and depth it is capable of receiving the
superabundance of water during the inundation, without overflowing the
habitations and crops; but later, when the water subsides, and after the
lake has given up its excess through one of its two mouths, both it and
the canal retain water enough for purposes of irrigation. This is accomplished by natural means, but at both ends of the canal there are also
lock-gates, by means of which the engineers can regulate the influx
and efflux of the water.' The lock-gate, which in ancient times admitted the water conducted from the Nile by the canal into the lake,
was probably situated near the modern eerahmt (see below), the name of
which is supposed to be derived from the old Egyptian'Ro-hun' or'Lerum", tie.'the mouth of the lake", and the site of which was probably
once occupied by the town of Ptolemais.

There is a difference of opinion as to the Situation and Form of the
Ancient Lake. Linant-Bey, arguing from the considerable dilTerenee of
level between the two lakes, maintains that the Birket e1lur0n (Lake
of the Horns, p. 465 ] could never have formed part of Lake eris, as was
formerly supposed, and he assigns to the latter a much smaller area than
was attributed to it under the earlier theory. Placing it farther to the
sol, nearer to the Labyrinth and el- Latin, he makes its boundary-line
run towards the s. S. l of Nedinet e1 Favum to the 1mm el » G/1aral: ,and
intersect the desert of Siam Ahmed where the ancient height of the water, which far exceeds the level attained in modern times, 1:15 left its

' it then leads to Kalamsha, turns to the N. to Dir, and then to
the E. and 8.143. to mmishprseh, follows the embankment of PillauuMeh,
and passes [ law at ('l Kebir Gut the bridge of el-than (see below). Hence the
boundary leads by minute towards the ICE. to Selah, and thence to the W.
fo Bihamu fp. Mor, then again to the hi, and thus returns to Medinet elFa.siun.---A somewhat fatiguing journey of 2-3 days will enable the trav


