Fayz'tm. EL-L, J. Route. 463

eller to complete this circuit of the bed of the lake, which is now dried
up. Recently, however, Mr. F.0npe Whitehouse, relying upon the great
circumference assigned by Herodotus (11, 149) to the lake. of 3000 stadia
(reduced by Linant to 360) or about 335 M. (Pliny says 23011.), and upon
measurements made by himself on the spot, ascribe: a considerably larger
area to the lake than Lina )", and maintains that it extended on the SAY.
to the ll'ddz' Rayon. It is not improbable that in ancient times nearly the
whole of the Faylim could be laid under water, so that even the Birket
el-Kurt'm belonged to Lake Meris, but that the entire system was meant
for the watering of the Fay1'uu alone and not of the Nile valley or the
Delta. Considering that the bed of the lake must annually have been raised
by the deposit of Nile mud, it follows, that as soon as the raising of the
embankments and the removal of the mud were discontinued, the lake
must have become nnserviceable, especially after the lock-gates at elLalifin fell to decay, each opening at which as Diodorus informs us,
cost JO talents (i.e. about 113250131). The discharge of the superfluous
water probably ran through the Baht Bela lift, which has already been
mentioned o. 400). or through the wads Nezlelr (p. 464), both of which
fall into the Birket eHruruha, The ancient conjecture, that the latter
discharged part of its water into the Ea tra Cor, as Herodotus says, the
'Libyan Syrte'). was not an unnatural one.

A visit to the Pyramid of el-Lahun or Illahnn is only interesting to
those who are desirous of convincing themselves of the truth of Liuant's
hypothesis, and to make the circuit of the boundaries of the old bed of
the lake (see above). The pyramid, which is built of Nile bricks, may he
reached from Hawdret el-Kasab in 4-5, or from the Labyrinth in 3-4 hours.
It has been recently been opened by Fraser. The discovery of an alabaster altar with the name of Usertesen ll. renders it probable that the
pyramid was built by that monarch. A smaller pyramid lies to the NE.
The remains of the ancient embankments. which were tolerably well
preserved in the time of the Klialifs, are not without attraction. Those
who are interested in hydraulic engineering should also inspect the entrance of the Bahr Yfisuf into the Fayum.

About 1/2 M. to the E. of the pyramid of el-Lalidn, Mr. Flinders Petrie discovered a temple in 1389. and close beside it the ruins ofthe town
IIa-Usertesen-hotep, now called Kahun. The latter was founded by Usertesen 11 (12th Dyn.) for the labourers on his pyramid. Among the articles
found here were pottery, flint and copper implements of the 12th Dyn.,
numerous papyri of the same period, a statuette of Si-Sebek (13th mm),
a wooden stamp of Apepi, and a large wooden door of Osorkon I.

Gurab, 11/2 M. to the \V.S.W. of 11lahtsn and close to the edge of the
desert, owed its origin to Tutmcs UL, who built a temple there. Many
of the inhabitants were foreigners. Mr. Petrie discovered here fragments
of pottery of the time of Tutankhamon and Ramses 11., resembling the
most ancient potsherds found at Mycenae. The coffin of Ameuturshm
discovered here. is now at Oxford. The pottery bears Egyptian stamps,
but also letters of the Cyprian,' Phoenician, and other alphabets.

Birket el-rfuron and Kay (ruru'trs (tent, horses, provisions, etc.,
comp. p. 456). The RAILWAY from Medinet el-Wytim vii s.Senrti and
Abu Gonsheh to [ 15 M.) Abuksa (see below) and thence to Fenhftr and [ 71/2 M.) Tirseh is used almost exclusively for the conveyance of Sugar-cane to the manufactories of the Khedive. Travellers going by railway (one train daily from Medineh to Abuksa,
starting about noon, and performing the journey in about i hr.)
must take horses with them for the continuation of their journey.
The following routes are all practicable, but the third is to be
preferred: ~
[ 1) We proceed by land vii N: leh [ where boats must be ordered

or the passage of the lake) to Kusr Koran; then by water to










