464 Route 9. 31311111311. Faytam

Dimeh and again by water to the S bank of the lake, situated in
the latitude of Fertlstrr, which lies about. 4 M. inland. The horses
should be sent on from lgasr lSqulll to the lake (unless the somewhat refractory guides refuse to obey), in order that we may ride
to Senhfir, and thence to Medinet ei-r'ayrim. Four or five days are
required for the excursion; the points of interest are mentioned in
the third route. The road from Nezleh (see below) to lies: 15mm
Llhrs.) leads through the desert, past the remains of a small temple,
called by the Arabs Kay el-chit, or Maidens' Castle".

(2) If the traveller renounces Dimeh and lxasr It'urun and is
satisfied with the sport to be obtained in the Baht'er-is- adi, he may
easily make the excursion in 21/2--3 day.s 011 the first day the route
skirts the railway (see above) to (2 hrs.) Same, - it then leads
through a plantation of opuntia, the growth of which is so gigantic
that it almost resembles a forest, and across a sandy tract overgrown
with tamarisks to (2 hrs.) Abuksa, situated on a hill, and commanding a fine survey of the lake and the Libyan mountains. At
the N. base of the hill near the railway station (see above) is a sugar
manufactory, superintended by a Frenchman, who accords a kind reception to travellers. We now proceed to the S.W. across meadows,
and through a somewhat marshy district, to (21/2 hrs.) Abshch, situated close to Nealeh. (The traveller is recommended to spend the
night in a tent rather than among the Beduins.) Next day we follow the valley of the Bahr el- Wu di (or Bohr A czleh), which is
bounded by large mud- hills, to the lake (21/2 hxs.), where we spend
the middle of the day. (The numerous dead fish on the bank of the
lake render its proximity unpleasant; boats are to be had from the
Beduins.) In the evening we return to Absheh, and on the third
day to Medinet el--Fayl'im.

(3) Four days at least are required for the somewhat longer
route via Senhfir and the lake to Kasr Kurfin, if the traveller wishes
to visit Dimeh, and shoot on the lake. The route first skirts the
railway and the villa of Mahmud Bey, and then passes the tomb of
a shékh, where a draught of good water is offered to the traveller
by a dervish. A number of dry ditches must be crossed, and also
several canals, where the traveller on horseback will hardly escape
from wetting his feet when the water is high; if he rides on a
donkey, he should get the Arabs to carry him and his saddle across.
The fields which we pass are remarkably well cultivated, and the
eye rests with pleasure on trees of various kinds, including fine
olives in the gardens, with hedges of cactus. The vegetation is most
luxuriant in the neighbourhood of Fidmin, a village picturesquely
situated on a slope, but inhabited by a thievish population. The
Ruhr cl- TtthllnC } t L'mill river'), one of the broader canals, must be
crossed here. Beyond this point the country is, at places, green and
well irrigated, and at others dry and sterile. One part of the route,
which is flanked by luxuriant gardens of olives, pomegranates, and






