Fayam. BIRKET EL-rima) N. 9. Route. 465

figs, is very muddy. After a ride of fully three hours we reach the
looks and the bridge Kandtir Hasan. The large body of water of
the canal, which is conducted from the Bahr Yfisnf, here falls into
a channel, which, with many ramifications, conveys it to the fields
of Senhfir.

The large village of Senhur (rail. station, see p. 463) lies on the
border of the second plateau of the province. Those who visit Hawara (p. 460 ] reach the first plateau, while the second is crossed on
the way to Senhflr; the third lies at our feet when looking down on
the Birket srl-forts from the great Kdm, i.e. the ruin-strewn hill
to the N. of the village. The handsome house of the Shékh elBeled offers good accommodation, and even quarters for the night.
The traveller should make a bargain here for a boat with the shékh
of the fishermen. About 30 fr. for the day, and a bakshish for the
towers (of whom 6-8 are necessary for speed), are demanded.

Senhfir stands on the site of an ancient, and not unimportant,
town, of which large heaps of ruins still remain. { omen walls are
traceable in many places. A large building has recently been excavated by the peasants for the sake of obtaining the hard bricks
of which it is built, but part of it has already been removed. No
remains of columns or inscriptions have been met with.

From seam" - to the Birket (sl-Furl") takes about 11/2 hr. The route
leads through sugar-plantation;. We reach the lake near the peninsula
known as el-Gezireh, on which stands a heap of ruins. A short distance
to the W. are the scanty remains of eZ-Hammctm. The traveller, after
having ridden to the lake, should not forget to order his horses, which
return to Senhfir, to await him for the return-journey at the spot where
he has quitted them, or to order them to meet him in good time on the
bank of the lake by Nezleh (see p. 464).

The Birket eI--Kurun ['lake of the horns') owes its name to
its shape, which resembles that of slightly bent cows' horns. It
measures 34 M. in length, and, at its broadest part, is about 61/2 M.
wide. It is situated on the same level as the Mediterranean, and
its depth averages 13 ft. The greenish water is slightly brackish
(scarcely fit for drinking), and abounds in fish, some of which
are very palatable. The right of fishing is let by government, and
the whole of the fishermen dwelling on the banks of the lake are
in the service of the lessee, who receives one-half of the catch.
The boats (market) are very simply constructed, being without
deck or mast; the traveller must take up his quarters on the flooring in the stern; none of the boats have sails, for, as the fish always go in the same direction as the wind, the fishermen have to
row against the wind in order to catch them. Numerous pelicans,
wild duck, and other water-fowl, frequent the lake. The banks
are extremely sterile; on the N. side are barren hills of considerable
height. In the middle of the lake rises a mass of rock, resembling
a table, and serving as a landmark. Near the S. bank, from E. to
W., lie the villages of Kafr Tamtyelt, Tirseh, Senhzir, Abuksa, Beshuai, and Ain't Gonsheh; the ruins of Dimeh are situated on the N.

BAEDEKEn's Egypt I. 2nd Ed. 30



