Division. GEOGRAPHICAL NOTICE. 31

hallited area of Egypt, excluding the deserts, as 12,830 sq.M. and the
area actually under cultivation as 9460 ssrM. The alluvial soil of
the Nile Valley, in contradistinction to the desert, known among the
natives by the Arabic word'Er-hut', begins at Khartfim, at the confluence of the White and the Blue Nile. Following the wide curve
described by the Nile through Nubia, the length of the valley as
far as the first cataracts is 98931., but as the space between the
river and its rocky banks is very limited, and the irrigation system
is imperfectly developed, the cultivable area in this part of the
valley is only about 1050 sq. M. The Nubian portion of the alluvial
soil of the Nile is thus very insignificant; and when the ancient
oracle described Egypt as the country watered by the Nile, and the
Egyptians as the people who quenched their thirst with its water,
the river below the first cataract must obviously have been meant.

Divisions and Administration. The ancient prehistoric Egyptians were at first subdivided into numerous tribes, who formed
a number of distinct small and independent states, with their
own laws and their peculiar tutelary gods. These states were
afterwards gradually united into the two large principalities of
Lower Egypt or the Northern Country (To Maw, or To Melt), and
Upper Egypt or the Southern Country (To Res, or To Fem) ). At
a later period these two larger states, united under one Sceptre,
formed the empire of the Pharaohs, or the land of Fend. The
smaller states then constituted provinces or nomes (Egyptian liesoph;
Greek nomoi ]. The ancient Egyptians divided each name into four
principal parts :--( 1 ] The capital (Nut), the religious and administrative centre of the province; (2') The cultivated land (Um,
subject to the annual inundation; (p) The marshy land which remained in a moist condition after the inundation; (4 ] The district
traversed by canals conducted out of the Nile. The civil and military administration of the nome was presided over either by hereditary governors (hilt), or by nomarchs (mer-mat-Ot-to) appointed
by the king. Under the Ptolemies these governors were called strutegoi (nomu) or nomarchoi, and over a group of these presided an cpir
strategos. The chief authority in religious matters was the high priest
of the temple, whose appointment was sometimes hereditary and
sometimes elective; and his staff consisted of a prophet, a templescribe, a stolistes or custodian of the vestments, and an astrologer.

The number of the names varied at different periods. Most of
the classical authors (thus Diodorus, liv. 3; Strabo, xxviii. l, 3 ]
enumerate thirty-six. The Egyptian lists, such as that of Edfu,
mention forty-four, half of them being in Upper and half in Lower
Egypt (but two of those in Upper Egypt and three in Lower Egypt
are counted twice). The Greeks and Romans sometimes divided
Egypt into three parts ~--Upper, Central, and Lower Egypt, or the
Theba'is, Heptanomis, and Delta.

The following is a list of the ancient Egyptian Homes:





