'lol; Route J. KASR titudm. Futp1rn. 1

bank, but there are no other villages ofimportanco. A the S.W.
end of the lake is the promontory of Khashm Khalil, overgrown
with tamarisks and reeds, the creeks of which afford good landingpincest Ascending thence across the desert, we reach the temple in
about 11/4 hours. The fishermen object to pass the night on the
bank in the neighbourhood of Kasr Kuri'iu, being afraid of the Bednins and the'Afrit' (evil spirits).

Kasr Kurt'm is a tolerably well preserved temple, probably of
the Roman, or, at the earliest, of the Ptolemaic period. Before
reaching it we observe numerous traces of an ancient town,
which has now disappeared. The ground is strewn with blocks
of hewn stone, burnt bricks, broken pottery, and fragments of
glass. A circular foundation wall indicates the site of an ancient
cistern, while other walls seem to have belonged to vineyards. The
walls of the temple consist of carefully hewn blocks of hard limestone. This temple, like almost all the shrines in the oases, was
dedicated to the ram-headed Amnion-Khnurn7 as is proved by the
only two figures of this deity which still exist. They stand opposite
to each other at the highest part of the posterior wall of the upper
story of the open roof.

The temple is 20 yds. in width across the facade, and 29 yds. in length.
The entrance, facing the E., is approached by a lofty and carefully constructed platform, 14 yds. in length, forming a fore-court, on the S. side
of which rises a massive structure resembling a tower. Adjoining the
facade of the temple, to the \\'. of the entrance door, rises a massive,
semicircular projection, resembling the half of a huge column. On the
lower floor are the apartments of the temple which were dedicated to
worship, divided into a triple prosekos, and leading to the Sekos or sanctuary. In the first three rooms the ground slopes down towards thc sanctuary, which, built in the form of a cella, adjoins the third room of the
prosckos, and (as in the case of other temples) was divided into three
small rooms at the back. The sanctuary is flanked by two narrow passages, each of which is adjoined by three rooms. The rooms of the prosekos also have adjacent chambers from which we may enter the cellars,
or Mound by two flights of steps to the upper floor with its different apartments, and thence to the roof. whence we obtain an extensive view of the
remains of the ancient city, of the lake, and the desert. Each gate of this
curious building is surmounted by a winged disc of the sun, and over
the doors leading into the second and third rooms of the prowess and
into the sanctuary, instead of the ordinary concave cornice, there is a
series of I'ricus snakes, which, with their outstretched heads and bendng necks, together form a kind of cornice. The names of several travcllers are engraved on the stone of the first room, including those of Paul
Luci", R. Pecocke, Jomard, Roux, d'Anville Contents, Bellier, Burton,
Belzeni, Hyde, and Paul Martin. liasr lSurun has also been visited by
Lepsius. There are no ancient inscriptions remaining.

To the E. of the large temple are situated two smaller Roman temples,
in tolerable preservation, the larger of which, situated 300 paces from the
smaller, is net without interest. Its walls US ft. by 19 ft.) consist of
good burnt. bricks, and its substructures of solid stone; the cello. terminates in a niche resembling an e: "u each of the side-walls are
two half-columnist, which its the fragments lying on the ground show,
halting tn the lonie order. There are also some less important ruins
covering an extensive area. hut nothing has been found among them
dating from an earlier period than the Human. The construction of the
walls, the architectural forms, and many coins found here, are Roman;



