Fayz'rm. DiMEH. J. Route. 467

and none of those small relics of the period of the Pharaohs, which are
usually found so abundantly among the ruins of Egypt, have been discovered here. This was perhaps the site of the ancient Dionytiat, a town
which probably sprang up on the ruins of a Roman military station,
situated on the extreme western side of Egypt. On the outskirts of the
ruins are walls which perhaps belonged to gardens; there must also have
been once an aqueduct for the purpose of supplying the inhabitants and
their gardens with water. _

From Kasr Karim to Dimeh is one day" s journey. Dimeh is
situated opposite to the point at which we approach the lake from
fjenhrhr. The scanty ruins on the S. bank of the lake CEI-pantmama, eta ], are not worthy of a visit; but the ruins of Dimeh, although no inscriptions have been found there, present some attraction. A street, 400 yds. in length, formerly embellished with figures
of lions, leads to a platform on which an important temple once
stood. The numerous blocks scattered about here, resembling millstones, and apparently artificially rounded, are discovered on closer
inspection to be of natural formation. The paved court was surrounded by a brick wall, and the temple itself contained several
apartments; a peristyle, with columns now in ruins, led to the entrance. Notwithstanding the imperfect state of the ruins, they
suffice to prove, that a town of very considerable importance, perhaps the ancient Bacchis, once stood here.

Excursion to Médfim.

The PYRAMID AND Mnsranas on Manon, the oldest monuments in the
world, deserve a visit, which if the traveller approaches by the river, may
be accomplished from the village of Rt Tt in about 6 hrs. (railway travellers may perform it in about the same time from the el-Wasta station;
comp. p. 458). Crossing the railway, we proceed on donkey-back in about
11/4 hr. in the pyramid, which rises close to the cultivated country on the
soil of the desert, 11/2 M. to the N. to the N. of the village of 11151111 )". This appears
to be the oldest of the local names handed down to us, as it is met with
on the mastabas of the early period of Snefru.

The Pyramid of Médum is so different from all the other structures of
the kind that it is called by the Arabs'El-Haram el-Kaddtib', or'the false
pyramid'. From a large heap of rubbish which covers its base, the
smooth and steep upper part of the structure rises in three different
stages at an angle of 74°10, and is still preserved to a height of 122 ft.
The first section is 69 ft, and the second 201/2 ft., while the third, now
almost entirely destroyed, was once 32 ft. in height. The outer walls consist of admirably jointed and polished blocks of Molgattam stone. The
holes in one of the surfaces were made by Lepsius and Erhkam when
they examined the pyramid, the construction of which afforded them an
admirable clue to the principle upon which the others were built (camp.
p. 350). The Pyramid of Médum was never completed, the heap of debris
at its base consists of the material which once filled the angles of the
different sections, so as to give the pyramid a smooth surface. The pyramid was pillaged as early as in the time of the 20th Dynasty. It was
opened in 1881 by Maspero, who found a long corridor and a chamber
without sarcophagus. Perhaps in this pyramid Snefru, the first king of the
4th Pym, was buried, as in the neighbouring tombs persons related to him
are interred.

The Mastabas of Méddm, which were opened by Mariette, lie to the
N. of the pyramid. Those were the tombs of the relations of Snefru
(4th Dyn.), and in many respects resemble the mausolea of Salglgdrah which
bear the same name. The facades of the most important of them are

30 r


