468 Route 9. MEDUM.

'partly uncovered. The street of tombs, which is now accessible, presents the appearance of ahill--side covered with masonry, incrusted with
stucco, and provided with ante-chambers. The month of each tomb is
towards the E; the leaning external walls are generally of Nile bricks,
richly embellished with the linear patterns which afterwards formed the
favourite decorations of the sides of the sarcophagi (which were imitations of the tomb-facades). The vestibule is in most cases comparativcly large, but the inner corridors are narrow, slope downwards, and
are covered with representations in a remarkably simple and antiquated
style. The archaic character of the scenes and of the hieroglyphics
proves the great antiquity of these monuments. The influence of the
hieratic canon is already traceable here, but it does not appear to have
hampered the efforts of the artists as much as it did at a later age. The
admirably preserved colours are also less conventional than those seen in
later monuments.

The first open tomb which we reach from the S., was that of Prince

Q
(Erpa He) Nefermat, who lived in the reign of King Teter (There

were 3 kings of this name, in the ist, 3rd, and 6th Dynasty). On the left
wall of the corridor leading to the tomb-chamber, we see the deceased
in a sitting posture, and on the right wall he is represented standing,
with his wife behind him. Adjacent are men and women presenting
offerings, as in the mastabas of T and Ptahhotep. The flesh-tint of the men
is red. and that of the women pale yellow, and this circumstance, especially in a monument of this early period, is important as tending to
prove the Asiatic origin of the Egyptian nobles. The features of the
persons represented are of the Caucasian, and not of the Ethiopian
type. Among the villages belonging to Nefermat, which offered gifts.

there appears on the left the name of the district of Rs: +



WWQ Le.'Metun of the cattle'. ltletun is the oldest form of

the heme i ium. From the neck of the ox, which represents the victim,
flows a, blac, k stream of blood. On the right side we find among others
a district named that'of the white sow", which proves that pigs were reared
in Egypt as early as the time of Snefru. The pig in this group is very

true to nature 0 In the name of the district Hat on Sek,

or'place of the plough g, the most ancient form of the plough is used
as a determinative symbol. The advanced condition of industrial pursuits, showing that the Egyptians already practised the art in which,
according to Pliny, they afterwards excelled, is proved by the character
of the dress worn by the women represented on the right side of the
first passage, consisting of black and white cotton stuff, with pleasing
patterns on the borders. He tells us that they were not in the habit of
painting the materials for their dress, but of dipping them in certain
tluids. They were coloured with boiling dyes, and came out impressed
with a pattern. Although the boilers contained one colour only, it is
said to have imparted several different tints to the stuffs dyed in them.
--In order to impart a durable colour to the larger figures represented
here, an entirely unique process was employed. The outlines were engraved on the stone, while the surfaces enclosed by them were divided
into deeply incised squares, which were titled with stucco of different
colours, the flesh-tint of the men being red, that of the women yellow,
and the colour of the robes being white, etc.

A little farther to the N. is the tomb of Am. the wife er chuz-mit.
() n the architrave over the doorway we see the husband of the deceased
engaged in snaring birds, while a servant presents the spoil to the mistress of the house. whose complexion is of a brilliant yellow. On the
outside wall, to the left, we observe the cattle of the deceased browsing
on reeds. On the right stands Nefcrmfit, who, as the inscription informs



