gots. 9. Route. 469

us,'caused this monument to be erected to his gods in indestructible
characters'. Among the domestic animals are several cattle of very
bright colours. We also notice a gazelle hem hy a butcher,
who is cutting off its head. Offerings of wine were also made at this
early period. In the passage leading to the some }, is a group of labourers busily at work. The hunting-scenes are curious, and, notwithstanding
their simplicity, remarkably true to nature. Among them is a greyhound
seizing a gazelle by the leg, and another carrying a long--eared hare

"few paces to the N. E. is another mastaba built of well hewn blocks
of limestone. The hieroglyphics and low reliefs. resembling those in
the tomb of Ti at Sahkarah, are admirably executed. The deceased interred here was named Intent, and his with Mara. Traversing the vestibule and a narrow passage, we reach a tomb-chapel with a sacrificial
table, in the passage, on the right, is a handsome male figure with a
lasso, and on the left are stone-masons, engaged in making sarcophagi.
On the left, in the innermost niche of this tomb, we perceive the deceased, and on the right, his wife. We next come to a ruined mastaba,
and to another tomb, half excavated, which was constructed for Rahatep, a son of Snefru, one of the highest civil and military dignitaries of
the kingdom, and his wife Nefert, a relation of the royal family. The
statues of this married couple, who died young, or at least are so represented, which are now among the principal treasures of the museum of
Gizeh, were found here. Farther to the w. are several other tombs, new
covered up.

On the right bank of the Nile, opposite Rikka upwards of 3 M. inland, is situated the small town of Aging, where a heap of earth and
broken pottery represents the scanty remains of the ancient Aphloditopolis, the territory of which, according to Strabo, adjoined that or Achm
thus (Dahshur), while its capital lay on the Arabian bank of the Nile.
The city of Aphrodite must have been the same as that of the Egyptian
Hathor, to whom also was sacred the white cow, which, as Straho ine
forms us, was worshipped here. The monuments, however, show us,
that in the name of Aphroditopolis, Horus, the son of Isis, was more
highly revered than any of the other gods, among whom, Hathor must be
included. At an early period the Coptic name of the place was Tpeh,
from which Atho, and the Arabian name AMI) are derived

About A. D. 310 the city of Aphroditopolis gained some celebrity from
St. Anthony, the anchorite, who took up his quarters among the mountains to the E. of the town. So many devotees of every class made pilgrimages to him, that a regular high-road, practicable for camels, had to
be constructed, which led the pilgrims through the desert to the cell of
the hermit, situated near a group of palms and a spring. The saint,
however, escaped from his visitors, by retiring farther into the heart of
the mountains (see below _

Near the village of Zdwiyeh (W. bank) a small canal runs out of the
Nile into the Bahr Yusuf (11.4561-a deep cutting also seems to have
connected the river with the Bahr Yusuf in the latitude of Abnas ellllediueh and Beni Suef. These four channels enclosed an island which
has been identified with the Jreeaeleopolitan Nome, unanimously described by Greek authorities as an island. Strabo, who visited it on
his way to the Fay-iui, after leaving the Nome of Aphroditopolis,
describes it as a large island, and informs us, that the inhabitants of
ffeeaeleopolis worshipped the ichneumon, the greatest enemy of the crocodile, which was held sacred in the name of Arsinoe; for, as he tells us,
it crawls down the throat of the sleeping monster and devours its
entrails. The large hills of rubbish near Agents elalledineh have been
satisfactorily identified with the ruins of Heracleopolis- they lie about H M.
inland from Beni Suef, and are called by the Arabs iiiA el- Jmndrt ('mother
of the heaps of rubbish") An excursion to them, however, is not recommended, unless the traveller is visiting Beni Sher from the Fayfim.

On the W. bank of the Nile the mountains recode a considerable
distance, while on the E. bank their steep and lofty spurs frequently extend down to the bank in not unpicturesque forms. None of the Nile



