470 Route JO. PENINSULA OF SINAI.

villages between this point mid heni Sher are worthy of mention. About
2 M. inland (on the w. bank) is the village of 1mm, chiefly inhabited
by Copts, with two churches of some interest, and numerous potteries.

Beni Suef, 72 M. from Cairo, with 5-6000 inhab., the first place
where the steamboat stops, and a railway station, is a pleasantly situated
town. with beautiful shady avenues, and a palace in bad preservation. It
is the capital of a province of the same name, which is said to contain 169
villages with about 100,000 inhabitants. and is the residence of a Mudir.
Post and telegraph office. and a small bazaar. The market days present
a busy scene, but the dirty streets are almost deserted at other times.
The linen manufacture, for which this town was famous in the middle
ages. has fallen off.

A road, which was much frequented before the completion of the
railway, leads from Betti into the Fay1hn.

Another road, traversing the ll'ridi Baydd, which opens near the
village of that name, on the E. bank of the Nile, opposite Bent Sher.
leads through the desert to the monasteries of St. Anthony and St. Paul
(pp. 99, 385), situated a few miles from the Red Seat The fraternity of
the monastery of St. Anthony now occupies the highest rank among the
Monet. a religious corporations.

From Beni Suef railway to Cairo in we hrs.

10. The Peninsula of Sinai.

The journey to Mount Sinai is perhaps the most interesting of Oriental expeditions, particularly to the student of the Bible +, as he will traverse nearly the same route as that of the Israelites described in the
Bible (p. 1811, The peninsula of Mt. Sinai owes its imperishable fame
to the vicissitudes undergone by these wanderers under the leadership
of their great lawgiver; but the scenery is also so varied that it will
amply repay the traveller for all the privations of his journey, which,
after all, are not more serious than those of a tour through the interior
of Palestine. The usual duration of the Mt. Sinai expedition is 17-20
days (comp, however, P. 475).

The best SEASON for the journey is between the middle of February
and the end of April, and between the beginning of October and the
middle of November. During the months of November, December, and
January, the nights are generally very cold, while in summer the glare
of the sun, reflected from the granite rocks of the Sinai mountains, is
very oppressive. Even at the end of May the weather is hot, and the
lihamsin (p. 69) prevalent (setting in sometimes as early as April ], but
at this advanced season the traveller will have the advantage of seeing
the manna (p. 500), or fruit of the there shrub, in its ripe condition.

The PREPARATIONS for thejourney require special care. The startingpoinlt is Suez, but all the preliminaries must be arranged at Cairo, where
alone are to be found the necessary dragomans and the Slickhs of the
Tawara Beduins (p. 478). who act as guides and let camels during the
travelling season. The first thing is to engage a good dragoman (p. [ 3),
who provides camels, tents. bedding, blankets, and provisions. All these
should he examine M Cairn, and the tents pitched by way of experiment. The more carefully this inspection is made, and any detects





though it is not the object of the handbook to enter upon the
province of Biblical criticism. the views of the principal explorers are
briefly given in connection with the different places. As the great charm
of a journey through the Peninsula consists in its associations with the
ti tut er the Exodus of the Israelites, and the promulgation of
the law (p. 1181 ]. the traveller should of course he provided with a copy
of the whole Sacred Volume, or at least with the books of Exodus and
Numbers.



