472 Route 10. PENINSULA OF SINAI. Camels.

which may be added, if required, a tent to be used by the whole party
during the day), and for each traveller a complete bed with clean mattresses, blankets, sheets, and pillows; each person shall have two clean
to em every five days, and clean sheets once a week. A sufficient supply
of water for washing shall be supplied every morning, and as much drinking water per day as the traveller desires.

(The Beduins of Sinai carry the water in small, long-shaped tasks.
The traveller will find it convenient to have one of these appropriated
to his private use. liullehs are best for keeping the water cool, but are
easily broken ]

(5) The traveller's breakfast shall consist daily of eggs, with tea,
coffee, or chocolate; lunch shall consist of cold meat (roast-meat, fowls,
etc), and fruit; dinner, at the end of the day, shall consist of... courses.
(The travellers shall be provided with orange » and dates whenever they
1 esn-e.

(The traveller may adjust the bill of fare according to his taste. As
the air of the desert is bracing, a liberal diet should be prescribed; preserved meats may also be stipulated for. Nothing is to he had on the
route except at the monastery, where rice, lentils. bread, dates, and excellent date-brandy may be purchased. The dinner hour should always
be fixed for the evening, after the day's journey is over.

It need hardly be said that wine and spirits are apt to make the
traveller drowsy in hot weather. Cold tea quenches the thirst better
than anything else. The bread which the dragoman proposes to take
should be tasted beforehand. The Amman bread, consisting of thin,
round cakes, is only palatable when fresh, so that a supply of European
bread should be stipulated for. - An abundant supply of ordinary tobacco (p. 27) should be taken to give the attendants and Beduins, but
the traveller should beware of being too liberal with it at first, lest this
attention should he demanded as a right ]

(O) The Dragoman Y. shall provide a sufficient number of good and
serviceable camels; the riding camels (see below) for Mr. N. and party
may be tried by them before starting, and in case they do not suit, may
be exchanged for others. The same stipulation applies to the saddles (the
condition of which should be carefully examined).

(7) In case of the illness or death of any of the camels, Mr. N. and
party shall to no extent be responsible.

(8) Neither the Dragoman Y. nor the Arabs, who escort the travellers,
shall, without the special permission of Mr. X., allow anyone whomsoever
to join the party.

(9) The Dragoman Y. binds himself to conduct Mr. X. and party to
any point within Arabia Petrz'ca which they may desire to visit, to allow
them to break their journey, whenever, and for as long a time as they
may wish, and to provide each member of the party, when making excursions off the main route, with guides and luncheon. The Dragoman Y.
shall not, however, be bound to provide more than one dinner, and one
lodging for the night.

(tut The Dragoman Y. forfeits all claim to payment for any day when
he is the cause of a stoppage for more than half a day; but no such forfeiture shall take place, if Mr. X. himself, or unfavourable weather, should
be the cause of the delay. Any accidents happening to the camels, or
difficulties caused through the fault of the Arabs, shall be reckoned among
the delays for which the Dragoman Y. is answerable.

(This last stipulation is quite fair, as the Arabs in Arabia Petraca. can
always procure fresh camels within a few hours.)

(11) The day for starting from Suez shall he the ...th day of:. .5
for any postponement caused by the Dragouian Y., contrary to the Wishes
of Mr. N. and party, he shall be liable to a fine of.', hstg. per day.

The CAMELS (p. 12) used for riding are of an entirely different race
from the camels of burden, and are called'llegba', or in Syria'Deml' (i.e.
docile). The Demis, properly speaking, are selected animals of noble
breed, and very superior to the ordinary camels of the caravans. The



