reparation. PENINSULA OF SINAI. 10. Route. 473



ddie, which is placed upon the hump of the animal, consists of a kind of
vooden frame. from which two high round crutches project in front and
behind. Upon the frame is placed a leather cushion (Which is rendered
more comfortable by the addition of rugs), and in front of the foremost
crutch there is a second cushion. The traveller sits with one leg round the
foremost crutch. somewhat in the way in which ladies ride, and rests
the heel of one foot against the instep of the other. The camel is urged
on by the rider's heel. or a switch. The 111111111 generally march in a
long string, one behind the other. with deliberate but long steps, always
snatching at herbs by the way-side when they have an opportunity. Their
trotting and galloping paces are unpleasant. A camel can also carry two
or more persons in a litter, and may also be made to carry the traveller's
luggage. Mounting is not easy at first. w hen the animal kneels
down, the rider grasps the two crutches, and places one knee on the
cushion; he then swings the other leg into the saddle over the hindmost
crutch. The camels have a trick of getting up while the rider is in the
act of mounting, but the drivers prevent this by putting their feet on
one of the animal's bent fore-legs. The first movements are always
somewhat violent, and the novice must hold fast by the crutches; as the
camel always gets up with its hindleas tirst. the rider should at first
lean back, and afterwards forward. The walking motion is very pleasant. and those who are accustomed to it prefer a camel to a horse for a
long journey. The rider can read comfortably if he Wishes, and need not
hold the reins in his hand.

ARABIAN SADDLE-BAGS (Khurg) should be purchased for the journey,
as they are very convenient for carrying the requirements of the toilet,
books, tobacco. and other articles.

With regard to DRESS, see 1111 ll, 15. tlvereoats, cloaks, or bournouses raba'iych', see p. IO), and slippers, should not be forgotten. The
traveller should also be provided with Srimxc Shoes. if he intends to
make mountain ascents. as the rocks of the Serlnftl and Jehel miss are
very sharp and angular.

Lastly a few hints with regard 1111111111111 Ur, 1.7); chemists, p. 231)
may be acceptable to the traveller. although the climate of the peninsula
is extremely healthy. especially if the traveller walk an hour or turn in
the mornings and evenings. A pair of blue or grey spectacles, with perhaps
a second pair in reserve, will he found to protect the eyes against the inflammation which is apt to be caused by the glare of the sun, A supply
of zinc or other eyewash will often be useful. Castor oil ttwo table.spoonfuls) is a good remedy for diarrhea, even when serious. Seidlitz
powders are a specific for indigestion. l'ills of quinine should be taken
in cases of fever which frequently attacks the Beduins0, and glycerine is useful for softening the skin when cracked by the heat. A
supply of lint, sticking-plaster, and linen bandages. may also sometimes
he 111111111. - A cup of tea or cotl'ee will be found refreshing atluncheon;
fuel for heating water (camel-dung. and dry plants) can always be obtained
by the Heduins. Good cocoa is also considered wholesome and nutritious,
and is easily prepared. A supply of Liebig's extract of meat should not
be omitted.

At Cairo (or at Suez) the traveller should procure through his consul
a letter of introduction from the Monastery of the Sinaites at Cairo to
those of the Monastery of St. Catharine, where he will then receive every
attention. Those who intend to visit'Ak: alra, should, if possible, be provided with an introduction to the commandant of the fortress there,
especially if they propose tu-proceed thence to Petr. - Enquiries should
also be made at Cairn whether a journey to Petra is considered safe.

The following are the principal routes (distances see below); 1

Cal 1.11111 Roam. This route leads by w di Maghara (p. 491), wiidi
Mokatteb (p. 501), to the
Monastery of 111111, and returns by ".1111 esh- em kl, (p. 520), 51111111 elKhadem (p. 522 ], and \Vadi el-ltomr (p. 523) near the sea, and to the
1-111111 lending 111 Suer,. In this way the traveller does not retrace his steps.
except on a portion of the route.





