474 Route 10. PENINSULA OF SINAI. Plan ofExcursion.

(The journey from Mt. Sinai to'Akaba, and from Petra to the Holy
Land, is very rarely undertaken, and should not be attempted without
careful enquiry regarding the safety of the route.)

(h) SEA VOYAGE. A boat conveys the traveller down the Red Sea to
The ip. 515), whence he rides to Sinai in 21/2 days. When the N. wind,
which almost always prevails on the Red Sea, is strong enough, the voyage takes about 20 hrs; but it may take much longer if the breeze subsides.
As the vessel skirts the coast, and as violent storms in the Red Sea are
very rare, except during the prevalence of the Khamsin in April and May,
the voyage in a boat of sufficient size (about 20 tons" burden) is unattended
with danger, though far from pleasant in a bad vessel. The return-journey
should on no account be made by water, for, owing to the prevalence of
the N. wind, constant tacking is necessary, so that the voyage takes 8-10
days or more. The trip may be made in a vessel of 20 tons" burden, with
a crew of four men, for 100450 fr.

The master of the vessel should be required to provide himself with
the necessary ship's documents. The traveller's consul will perhaps give
him a letter of introduction to Shékh Hennen, a respectable and obliging Arab who lives at The Even without an introduction the traveller
should apply tu t is shiikh, who will assist him in getting camels. The
shekh speaks Arabic only, but his son speaks a little French and Italian.
Travellers who can speak modern Greek or Arabic should go direct to
the Greek Convent, show the monks his letter of introduction to the
cement oh m. Sinai, and hire from them the camels necessary for the
completion of his journey.

The most favourable time for starting is towards evening; we embark from the quay near the Suez hotel. After traversing the narrow arm
of the sea at the upper end of which Suez is situated, we reach the end
of the Suez canal, and the roadstead shortly afterwards. On the right
rise the'Atii? a mountains (p. 415), with the promontory of the same
name, and to the left are the palms of'Ain Mdsa (p. 419 ], beyond which
is the low chain of the hills of Tih. Beyond Cape'Ataka opens the broad
mm jllflsa, and the hills recede. On the left "s the desert extending
between the Tih hills and the sea; to the right, in the foreground, is the
lighthouse of lids Za'fertineh, opposite to which, on the left, is the Jebel
{ Ittntmrun Femhi (see p. 488), abutting on the see For some distance
hills on the left now rise close to the coast (see p. 489). The Day expands. To the right, in the foreground, rises the huge and picturesque
Jebel Gum-t1; (about 5900 ft. in height), at the foot of which is a second
lighthouse. On the left are the conical peaks of the Jebel el-'Araba, the
base of which we now skirt. Beyond the label Ghi'trib, which becomes
more and more prominent, rises the table-land of Jebel ea-Za, which
yields petroleum. The chain of Jebel el-'Araba is prolonged by the sandy
Jebel Mites (p. 516), and the Jebel llammdm Mam (p. 516). We at length
come in sight of the palm-groves and buildings of Tdr, beyond which
lies the sterile desert of NJ'a (p. 517); above the latter tower the imposing mountains of Sen. on the left, and of Unrm Shomar on the
right, between which appear the mountains of Sinai. Tar, see p. 515.

The is now the quarantine station for the Mecca pilgrims and is consequently called at by the steamers, which may be used for the journey
to this point and back. This considerably decreases the trouble and expense of the expedition, but it is necessary to find out beforehand the
season and duration of the quarantine, which of course varies with the
lunar year of the Arabs and with the state of health of the pilgrims. In
1830-81 it lasted from November to January.

The advantages of the sea-voyage consist in the saving of time and
money effected by avoiding the fatiguing and monotonous journey
between Suez and Wadi Shebekeh, while we make the acquaintance
of Tdr and the picturesque route through the Widi es-h'leh (p. 517), and
have an opportunity of ascending the Umm Shomar (p. 515) without making any digression. On the other hand we miss the route by Sarbfit elthulem (p. 522;; but this is of no consequence provided we return
the whole way by land, for the sake of seeing the majestic Serbia (p, 1071,

















