, Plan ofExcursion. PENINSULA OF SINAI. 10. Route. 475

the oasis of Firan (p. 495), the "'31 di Mokatteh (p. 493) with its inscriptions, and the mines of "'adi Maghara (p. 491), all of which are
points of much interest.

Camels are always to be had at Ttr, but as good saddles are me,
the travellers dragoman should take an ample supply of rugs from
Cairo; moreover it is not so easy to make a satisfactory bargain at Th
as at Cairo, though Shekh Hennen (see above) will render every assistance in his power. If the party is numerous." if the traveller wishes
to provide against the possibility of delay, camels should he sent on from
such to Toe, a journey of three days for unladen animals, the cost of
which is not very great.

To the above directions may, lastly, he added a few hints for which
we are indebted to a traveller who is well acquainted with the Arabic
language, and is accustomed to associate with the Beanies: - Take
the railway from Cairo to Suez. Dispense with tents and beds; but
take at least a couple of warm rugs to fold over the saddle, and to
he used at night A hammock will also he found very serviceable, and
the camp may he pitched where the trees are large enough to give it
support. Before leaving Cairo the traveller should lay in a stock of
preserved meats and wine, and buy a lamp and a few cooking utensils.
Pack these in palm-leaf baskets. which are well adapted for the V 1
If necessary the stock of provisions may be reinforced at Tur by fresh
bread, a few fowls, lobsters, and fish, and some date paste. At Suez
procure introductions to the monks of the Greek convent at Tur and
to Shekh Hennen. Proceed from Suez to Tur by steamer
(during the quarantine pe1'ind) Sleep at Tur in llenneu 3 house or in
the Greek convent. Hire a camel through I.lennen with a Beduiu attendant on foot. Start very early and traverse the desert to \Vddi csSléh (see p. 517). reaching the Sinai Monastery next evening. Thence
travel slowly to VVfidi Ba'ha'. Lastly. return to Suez by forced marches,
taking about two days and a night The whole journey may thus be
accomplished in eight days, without reckoning the stay at the monastery,
and perhaps at Fhrtrnr and as a sheltered resting-place may always he
found among the mountains, the protection of a tent will never be missed,
excepting perhaps on the last day of the expedition.

DISTANCES AND DISPOSITION OF TIME. There are of course several
laud-routes to the Monastery of Sinai, but we need only describe the
most interesting of them, and those which are generally taken by travellers. As a standard of distance we adopt the time usually occupied
by the camels in performing thejouruey. Their average rate oftravelling
is almut 21/2) 1. per hour,

When a journey in the East is to last for several days, it will be
found impossible to induce the beatmen on the Nile, Or the'Children
of the Desert", to start early in the morning, as they invariably seem to
think that a late hour in the afternoon is the most suitable time, s so that
a very short distance only is performed on the first day. So on the
tour to Sinai the party seldom gets farther than rtin Muse (see below)
on the first day, but on the second and following days more satisfactory
progress is made. Patience is therefore indispensable at starting The
journey is usually made without any prolonged halt, except at the mines
of \V1d1 Maghara in the Wtidi Mokatteb, in which we spend "hrs.,
riding at a slower pace, at the Jehel Serbal if it is to he ascended, for
one day, and at Sal-hut cl- Khadem, for 1/2- -1 day. Mount Sinai, heing the
great object of the journey, requires a stay of 2-3 days.

ROUTES TO MOUNT SINAI.
lst Day. From Suez to'Ain Mtssa (p. 419), 21/2 hrs.
A longer journey cannot well he accomplished on the first day, but
the camels and attendants may he sent on thither, while the traveller






