478 Route go. PENINSULA OF SINAI. Inhabitants.

rounding regions. Isolated by the sea and desert from the rest of
the earth and its history, it has yet, from a very remote period,
formed the highly revered vestibule of all the temples of the civilized world'. (0. Bitter.) The Mount Sinai group, with its masses
of granite, forms the S.W. half of the peninsula, while the long
limestone range of Jebel et-Tih, beginning at the Isthmus of Suez,
first turns to the 8.111., and then sends forth a number of ramifications to the E. and N.E. The Sinai group forms a watershed from
which weidis descend to the E. and W., i.e. to the gulfs of Suez
and'Akaba respectively; while the'River of Egypt', which is mentioned as the boundary of Palestine in the Bible, and is now the
Wadi e1-'Arish, descends from the Jebel et-Tih towards the N. to
the Mediterranean. Those parts of the Tih Mountains across which
our route lies rise to a moderate height, and are formed of limestone,
chalk, and, to a smaller extent, of sandstone.

Tue MOUNT SINAI GROUP.'This huge range, composed of primzeval gneiss
and granite, or. in more precise geological terminology, of colourless quartz,
flesh--coloured felspar, green hornblende, and black slate, rising in majestic
and precipitous masses and furrowed by vertical clefts, extends 1mm
51 1111 to the (hn sham", and from the Om Shomar to the Riis Mohammed. Since the time of their formation these crystalline masses have
undergone no geological change, but have reared their summits above
the ocean from the beginning of time, unaffected by the transitions of
the Silurian or Devonian, the Triassic or chalk periods. At the base
only do these venerable mountains show any trace of alteration. Thus
the Rial See he: on one side thrown a girdle of coral around Mount Sinai,
and so in recent times produced a coast district; while towards the N. the
sea during the chalk period, has formed the limestone plateau of the desert
111 l h (4000 ft. above the sea-level), which stretches across the whole of
Sinai to Mount Lebanon. The crystalline masses of the Sinai chain,
which extend from N. to S. for a distance of about 40 11., exhibit no
great variety. The whole range 1011111 .1 central nucleus traversed by
dim-ites and porphyries.' (O. Frees.)

Inhabitants. Amid the sterile mountains and valleys of the peninsula,
some 4-5000 Beduins manage to obtain a livelihood. They generally have
remarkably slight figures, and regular, sharply marked features. The
boys, who follow the camels and wait upon travellers, are particularly
graceful and engaging; the men are employed in conveying millstones,
charcoal, and other wares to Egypt; they supply travellers (who are
chiefly pilgrims of the Greek faith) with camels, hunt the mountain goat,
celebrate festivals, and, in the W. part of the peninsula at least, rarely
indulge in the sanguinary feuds which the different tribes formerly
waged with one another. Those occupying the E. and the N.E. of Arabia
Petreea are of a wilder and more warlike character, the boys and girls,
and occasionally the speckled sheep, which
call to mind the artifice resorted to by Jacob tn the meagre pastures in
summer, while the women remain in the tents to look after their children
and household work. In the best watered parts of the peninsula, the
lieduins have built themselves huts, and cultivate plantations of dates, the
most productive of which are in the wiidi Firkin (p. 495 ], and in the neighbourhood of Tur 1111 the Red Set In all other districts the inhabitants
live in tents. The Titwara nre good-natured, honest and generally of
noble hearing; they are quite free from the sordid cupidity of the lower
1-.1's in Egypt, and the name of'Fellfih' is used by them as a term of
reproach. They do not practise polygamy, and their families are generally final ]. The young Beduins have opportunities of seeing the girls of
their tribe unveiled, while tending their herds on the mountains, and
of forming attachments to them. Marriages from inclination are there





