, History. PENINSULA or SINAI. JO. Route. 479

me frequent here, but custom requires that the bridegroom should purchase his bride from her father, the usual price being several camels,
and a certain sum of money, but the bargain is seldom concluded without protracted negotiations conducted by a third party. The girl is not
permitted to know anything of these negotiations between the father, the
suitor, and the match-maker (khatib); and if she should happen to have
been awitness of them, decorum requires that she should retire into the
mountains, though only for a few hours. Some tribes require that she
should remain among the mountains for the three days preceding the
marriage, but among the Tawara she spends them in a tent erected beside
that of her father, whence she is removed to the dwelling of her future
husband. It occasionally happens that the girl flees of her own accord
to the mountains, and seriously resists and throws stones at an unacceptable
suitor (comp. p. 497). Each tribe has a shekh. or chief, a title of honour
which is also sometimes applied to the older and most respected
members of the community. The dress of these Beduins is very
simple. They wear a tarbfish or a turban, and a grey gown fastened
with a girdle round the waist. ln cold weather they wear a hut-nous
of coarse material; many of them are bare-footed, but the wealthier
wear sandals of camel-leather. Their usual weapons consist of sabres and
knives; the guns they use for hunting are of great length and simple
construction. They neither nae bursa: nor latices, but the men often
carry staves, which are still made in the form of the Egyptian c--C.
From their girdles usually hang amulets, tinder, and tobacco pipes.
Those tribes. with whom the traveller chiefly comes in contact, call
themselves Tawara [ people of Tdr), and are generally honest. The
principal subdivisions of this tribe are the Sibjaneddér, Mezénch,
Gm shell, Sawaliha, Saetdiyeh, Awfirimeh,'Alékét, RMantyeh, and
Shahin. The Bcduins of the E. and NE, and particularly the rAlewin,
are wild, warlike, and insolent. The Tiy? sheb, who conduct the traveller
from Nakhleh to Hebron, are less objectionable. With regard to the
servants of the monastery (Jebeliyehl, and the families dependent on them,
who are settled in the oasis of Firan and in Ta see p. 503. Each tribe
has its particular district, the boundaries of which are indicated by stones
at doubtful points. These Bednins have long professed E1-lslttm, but
know little or nothing of the Prophet and his religion. They are seldom
seen to pray, but they celebrate festivals to gem; and Muse (Moses), their
national saints, and sacrifice victims in their honour (see pp. 500, 520).
History of the Peninsula. The history of this region is as old as that of
Egypt itself. for we find that the first Pharaoh, of whose reign we
possess contemporaneous monuments bearing inscriptions (Snefru), signaliscd himself as the conqueror of these mountain tribes, and the discoverer of the mines. The mines in the desolate TViidi Maugham fp. 101) and
Sarbfit el-Khidem (p. 522) were worked by Egyptians more than 5000
years ago, and copper, malachite, and turquoises were brought thence to
the treasury of Memphis. Down to the time ofthe invasion of Egypt by
the 11'305 (p. 88 ], we learn that the peninsula was dependent on the
Pharaohs, and was impoverished for their advantage. Whilst the latter,
having been supplanted by the new masters of Egypt, maintainer ] themselves in the S. part of the valley of the Nile, it seems that the working
of the mines was suspended, and that the mountain tribes succeeded in
shaking off the yoke of their oppressors. Immediately after the expulsion
of the Hyksos, these tribes were subjugated anew by the powerful monarchs of the 18th Dynasty, who conquered all the states adjoining Egypt on
the East. This is proved by the insstrlptiurtsorSirsrln" 4 eHKhftdem. extending
down to the 20111 Dynasty. The names ofthe springs, mountains, and valleys,
resemble those of the Book of Exodus; and the Biblical traditions, which
the Beduins attach to them, doubtless owe their origin to the Christians
who settled at an early period in this wilderness. With regard to the
battle with the Amalekites, and Mount Sinai as the scene of the promulgation of the law, see p.481 et seq. We may, however, remark here, that
the Israelites of a later period never made pilgrimages from Palestine to
the sacred mount, and that, throughout the Mosaic writings, Elijah



