480 Route JO. PENINSULA OF SINAI. History.

(p. 511) alone is mentioned as a visitor to Mount Sinai. Down to the
time of the first settlement of the early Christians, we rarely have any
mention of travellers in the peninsula; but they are mentioned on some
Egyptian inscriptions, on the occasion of the journeys to Ophir
(1 Kings in. 26, 28), and lastly in a few notices of the history of the Nahattcans, a people from the N.E., who took possession of the commercial
route abandoned by the thni ms, and, from the famous rocky city of
Petra, commanded the peninsula down to about the period of the birth of
Christ. Numerous roe e in the districts we are about to visit bear inscriptions (p. 494) which owe their origin to the heathen Nabata-ans.
Down to the beginning of the Christian era, the population probably
led a similar life to that of the present day. Shepherds pastured their
flocks here, and merchants and pilgrims traversed the wadis on
camels, or ascended to the summit of the sacred Mount Serhal. The caravans of the merchants, however, were more richly freighted than at
the present day, while the natives, instead of praying to Allah and the
Prophet, worshipped the brilliant stars in the cloudless sky of this almost
rainless country. On the diffusion of Christianity, the deserts of the
peninsula were peopled by a new race, and assumed a new appearance
and a more important position. Arabia Petraea lay between the two
lands which had embraced Christianity most ardently, namely Syria
and Egypt, and soon became an asylum for the believers of these two
countries who longed for pardon and redemption, and who hoped, by
subjecting themselves to misery and privations in this world, to attain
salvation in the next. Their great exemplars were Moses and Elijah, both
of whom had trodden the sacred soil of the peninsula, and this region
therefore appeared to them a most appropriate place of retirement from
the business and pleasures of a wicked world. The first seeds of Christianity, which bore fruit in Trajan's reign, were perhaps sown here by
St. Paul about Al). In A.D. 105 the peninsula was annexed to the
human empire by Cornelius Palm, prefect of Syria. After the middle
of the 4th cent. the peninsula was gradually peopled with Anchorites and
numerous Coenobites. who were bound by a common monastic rule.
Tradition ascribes the foundation of the brotherhoods of hermits and
monks to St. Paul of Thebes and St. Anthony of Roma, but the most
recent investigations (comp. p. 385) prove this conjecture to be improbable.
() n lilt. Sorbal and in the want Fit'an, the ancient Pharan, was situated
the most thickly inhabited settlement0aurajof anchorites known to have
existed in any of the localities frequented by the early Christians. The
penitents were not only exposed to privations of every kind, but to the
attacks of the cruel and rapacious Saracens and Blemmyes. About the
year 305 forty of the monks of b' net were massacred by the Saracens.
In 301-63 St. Julian founded a church on Sinai (lilt. Semi"). Terrible
massacres of the monks of Sinai were again perpetrated by the Saracens
in 373 and 395 or MI, of which Ammonius and Nilus, two eye-witnesses,
have given accounts. In the 5th cent. many of the monks and anchorites
embraced heretical doctrines, which exposed them to severe persecutions,
dedicated to the Virgin, was built halfway up Mount Sinai (on the site
of the present chapel of Elijah), while a very strong fortress was constructed at the foot of the hill, and provided with a garrison, to prevent
the Saracens of the peninsula from invading Palestine (see p. 500). In
the Tu, cent. the armies of Mohammed began their victorious career.
They did not penetrate into the interior of the peninsula. but doubtless
took possession of Aila tantrum), which was chiefly inhabited by Jews.
In the course of subsequent expeditions, the peninsula of Sinai was found
to be almost exclusively occupied by a Christian population. The wandering tribes of the natives readily embraced the new religion, and the
monasteries and mile of the anchorites were ere long deserted. The
monks of the Monastery of the Transfiguration alone continued to maintain
their position in spite of many difficulties, partly by their resolute conduct, and partly by stratagem (p. 504). In the time of the Crusades, Ai t
(p. 519) became one of the chief scenes of the battles between Saladin,



