History. PENINSULA OF SINAI. go. Route. 481

who captured it in 1170, and the Franks, who were afterwards unable to
maintain possession of it, notwithstanding the efforts made by Count
liainold. After the Crusades the history of the peninsula was merged in
that of Egypt. Its sequestered valleys were traversed by hosts of Mecca
pilgrims, while there was also, as at the present day, no lack of
Christian pilgrims of the Greek faith, wending their way to the monastery of Sinai.

THE Exonus. Until recently the Bible was the only source of information regarding the emigration of the Jews from Egypt, but the monuments and papyrus-scrolls which have been handed down to us by the
ancient Egyptians, and deciphered by modern ingenuity, now convey to
us a distinct idea of the condition of Egypt at the time of the Exodus,
which we may compare with the contemporaneous Biblical accounts. On
collating the Bible narrative with the monuments, we find that they
agree on all material points. On the other hand, however, it seems
obvious, that the vicissitudes undergone by the Israelites in Egypt and
during the Exodus, must have been gradually embellished by legendary
and poetical additions, before they were recorded in writing. These
embellishments doubtless originated in the fertile imagination of the people,
and in their profound gratitude, which prompted them to paint in the
most glowing and picturesque colours the great things which God had
done for them, Most of the camping-places of the people seem, as we
shall see, to be capable of identification, since the list of stations in the
wilderness, as given by Moses (Numb. xxxiii), was doubtless made from
contemporaneous recordsf..

The Period of the Oppression. After Joseph's death the Israelites had
multiplied greatly, and, together with other Semitic tribes, occupied the
whole of the NE. part of the Delta, whilst the early Pharaohs of the
19th Dynasty were constantly at war with the nations whose territory
adjoined the Delta on the NE. It was therefore natural that the Egyptian kings should fear that, during their absence and that of the Egyptian army, the Jews should ally themselves with the enemies of Egypt, who
were of cognate race, and this apprehension is distinctly mentioned by
Pharaoh in the Bible narrative. Ramses 11., after whom one of the scenes
of the compulsory labour of the Israelites was named, was the Pharaoh
of the oppression, and his son illerenptah (the Menephthes of Manetho) was
the Pharaoh of the Exodus. The monuments inform us, that these
two monarchs decorated Tania, the ancient city of the Hyksos, anew with
magnificent monuments, the place having long been shunned by their

f The following theory regarding the Exodus, which was started during
last century by G. H. Richter, and maintained more recently by Schleiden,
has again been adopted byBrugsch (0017113., however, the observation at p.470).

'According to the monuments, the Sethroitic name was also called
Suku or Succoth. This region was covered with marshes, lakes, and canals, so that it was impossible to erect towns in the Interior of the
district, and accordingly the Egyptian texts, as well as the classic authors, mention towns on its boundaries only. The three following are
those oftencst mentioned. One named Ifhetam (i.e. fortress) of Succoth
lay to the N, near Pelusium, and was intended to protect the N. frontier. A second, bearing the Semitic name of 59901., or Sager (i.e. key),
of Succoth, and situated on the S.W. frontier of the district, was intended
to protect the district of Tanis « Ramses against invasion. The third,
known by the Semitic name of Migdol (i.e. tower), or by the Egyptian
name of Samul (also signifying a tower), lay on the outskirts of the
Arabian desert, on the E. frontier of the district of Succoth, the site
being probably identical with that of the modern Tell es-Samat (see
Map of the Suez Canal to the E. of Kantara). Brngsch identifies the Biblical Smooth with Segol in Succoth, and Migdol with the above-mentioned
Migdol-Samut. The Biblical Etham, however, which is wanting to complete the list of the stations, is also capable of identification, for it
can be no other than the Egyptian thtam, which signifies fortress, the
same word being preserved also in the Khetam of Succoth (see eheveh

BAEDEKER'S Egypt I. 2nd Ed. 31



