482 Route 10. PENINSULA OF SINAI. History.

predecessors on account of the Semitic religious rites practised there.
Tanis is the min of the Bible, where Moses performed his miracles in the
presence of Pharaoh. This place was doubtless often visited by Ramses 11.,
who was a powerful conqueror and founder of cities, not only when on his
way to battle, and on his return as a victor, but because his presence must
often have been necessary for the prevention of rebellion among the numerous foreigners resident in these E. districts. The lsraelitish records only
mention the oppression they underwent towards the end of their sojourn in
Egypt. Ramses, however, was far from being a capricious tyrant, but was
a wise, though severe military prince who employed the Semitic settlers
in his kingdom in the construction of useful works, in order to prevent
them from endangering his empire. The Jews, perhaps, also assisted in
strengthening the double series of bastions, known as the wall of Sesostris,
but constructed before the time of Ramses, which closed the Isthmus at
sites and afterwards obstructed the progress of the emigrants. The'Egyptian wall' with its forts and frontier fortresses also afforded protection
against the Asiatics, and commanded the district of Goshen.

The Pharaoh of the Exodus. Ramses 11. was succeeded by his thirteenth son Merenptah (p. 90), a man of mature age. At the beginning of
his reign Merenptah came into serious collision with the Libyans, who
had allied themselves with the warlike inhabitants of the Mediterranean
islands, and had attacked the coast of Egypt. He succeeded, however,
in subduing them, and was thus enabled to march Victoriously to Thebes,
where he caused spacious buildings to be erected, and encouraged the
scientific labours of the priests. Like his father, he also occasionally resided
at Tanis, as the monuments inform us, and seems to have accorded greater
liberty to the Semitic inhabitants of the Delta than his predecessor.
Being, however, less powerful and resolute, he was more exposed to danger
from his Asiatic neighbours than Ramses, who had not only rendered
them tributary, but had leagued himself with them by intermarriages and
treaties of peace, of which valuable records are still preserved. Moreover, before his accession to the throne the fortification of the E. frontier of the empire had been completed. He continued, nevertheless, to
employ the bondsmen in Goshen. and to keep them in check, as they
might have become very formidable if they had succeeded in uniting their
forces against Egypt. Accordingly, when Moses requested Pharaoh to allow
him to lead his people into the desert, lllerenptah's policy was to refuse,
his great object being to prevent the union of the Israelites with other

Now the monuments mention a I (hetam called Klzetam in the Province of
207' (i.e. Tanis-Ramses, p. 452), to distinguish it from other fortresses of
the same name. A representation of this Iihetam is preserved on a monument of Seti I. in Karnak, in the form of a fortress on both banks of
the river (the Pelusiac arm of the Nile), the opposite parts being connected by a bridge (Kantara), wwhile a town, named Tabenet, lies in the
vicinity. [ This Tabenet is probably to be identified with the'Pelusian
Dapltmze tthe plural form being applied to the double fortress), of which
Herodotus tii. 30) expressly says, that it was occupied in his time, and
before it by an Egyptian garrison for the protection of the frontier towards Arabia and Swim ] lletam together with the town of Tabenet, is probably to be sought for in the ruins of Tell Dcfemtch [ see
Map of the Canal of Suez, p. M). The memory of the
bridge theaters) connecting the double fortress still survives in
{ fungal-a [ see p. 435), which lies a little to the E. of Tell Defenneh.
The accuracy of this theory, according to Brugsch, is also proved by the
Egyptian and classical accounts of the roads which led to the E. from
Ramses (i.e. Tania-Sin ]. Two such roads are said to have existed, one
of these led to the N.E. by Pithom (p. 412) through the marshy district
of Succoth, with its numerous canals, and, according to the Egyptian
texts and the authority of Pliny, was unsuitable for caravans and therefore but little frequented; the second was used by the Pharaohs when
they marched towards the E. with their chariots and horsemen, and led
from Ramses to Segol in Succoth, Khetam, and migdol. In the British



