History. PENINSULA OF SINAL 10. Route. 483

cognate tribes. This accounts for his obstinate resistance to the apparently simple request of Moses. The story of the plagues, and the
destroying angel is well known. The historical foundation of the embellished narrative is corroborated by Egyptian and Greek records, which
state that Merenptah was compelled by various disastrous occurrences to
allow the foreigners (or'lepers', as they are called irCEgyptianyreports)
to quit the country.

The Exodus. hoses and his people doubtless started from Ramses;
but it is difficult to follow the route taken by the emigrants during the first
few days. Notwithstanding the ingenious theory ofBrngsch (see Note, p. 48",
there seems little doubt that it was the Red Sea which the Israelites crossed,
when we consider that their route to the E. was obstructed by a line of
fortifications. Believing this, we at once succeed in identifying the stations
at which they halted, and in accounting for the apparently eccentric route
chosen by Moses. The following passage occurs in Numbers xxxiii. 5, el
seq.: -'And the children of Israel removed from Rameses, and pitched in
Succoth, and they departed from Suction: and pitched in Etham, which is in
the edge of the wilderness. And they removed from Etham, and turned
again unto Pi-0ahivoth, which is before Baal mine", - and they pitched before Migilol. And they departed from before I'i-Hahiroth, and passed through
the midst of the seainto the wilderness'.- Hamses thteshhhteh On the freshwater canal between Tell cl < Kebir and the Lake nf Tim ht wats their
rallying point; the Israelites assembled here from On tue epnlis), Belbés,
Bubastis, and Pithom, from the E. and 83., and joined those coming from
Tunis and the N. pastoral districts. The various detachments were here
united; their hearts were filled with joyous hopes of reaching the happy,
promised land, and, with their swords ready to resist opposition, if necessary, the Israelites thus departed from Egypt'armed', and with a
'high hand'. On leaving Ramses they took the road to Syria, and encamped
at the S. of the modern Lake Halal ]. On the following day
they passed Etham (or Khetam,'the entrenchment'), tie. the line of fortifications above mentioned. Here their march was arrested by towers,
meats, and troops of well-armed soldiers. Ilereupon the people, who
while under the yoke of their oppressors had little opportunity of learning to use their swords, lost courage and desired to return. Moses knew
the character of the multitude under his care, and was aware that they
were as yet unable to resist disciplined forces, and to defy death for
the sake of gaining their liberty, and now'God led them not', we are

















Museum is preserved in papyrus letter upwards of 3000 years old, in which
an Egyptian writer describes his departure from the royal palace at
Ramses, observing that his object was to follow two fugitive servants.
The writer mentions that he started from Ramses on the 9th day of the
third summer month. that he arrived on the 10th at Segol in Succoth,
and on the 12th at Khetam, and that he there learned, that the fugitives
had taken the route in the direction of the wall (tug. Aubu-Gerrha-Shdr,
see p. 426), to the N. of Migdol. If Meets and the Israelites are substituted for the two fugitive servants, and the pursuing Pharaoh for the
writer, the route is precisely the same as that followed by the Hebrews
on their Exodus. As the writer arrived on the first day at Segol, and on
the third arrived at Ethan ], and as the fugitives took the route thence
to Migdol and Anbu-Gerrha-Sh11r, so also did the Israelites. On their
arrival there the Israelites were then on the bank of the Sil'bvm'c
me (see p. 1426, and the Map), a long sheet of water to the E. of Port
smith This lake was well known to the ancients, but has long since
been filled with sand, and has therefore fallen into oblivion. According
to ancient accounts the lake was in the form of a long strip, separated
from the Mediterranean by a narrow barrier only, and extending along
the coast. Diodorus informs us that the lake was entirely overgrown
with reeds and papyrus plants, and that it was very dangerous to travellers, particularly when a violent S. wind drove the sand of the desert
over its surface so as entirely to conceal the water, as the surface might
then easily be taken for land, and thus hire the ignorant to their de
31*



