484 Route 10. PENINSULA 0F SINAL History.

informed by Exodus. t 17,'through the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near; for God said, lest peradventure the people
repent when they see war, and they return to Egypt: But God led the
people about (before Etham) through the way of the wilderness of the Red
Sea'. Muses, accordingly, made them leave the route to Syria, and turn
towards the S in the neighbourhood of the fortifications, probably near
the modern Bir Makhdal, aneiently called Migdol, which, like the Egyptian Khetani (Etham), signifies a castle and the tower of a fortress.
During his long sojourn in the wilderness, after he had slain the Egyptian, their great leader had become familiar with all the routes in this
region, and as soon as he observed the weakness of his people, almost
the only course open to him was to avoid the forts, and turn towards
the 8.. in order to lead them round the N. end of the modern Gulf of
Suez, and through the wilderness of Arabia Petraea to Canaan. From
the outset he appears to have had a twofold object in view; the first
being to emancipate the people from the Egyptian yoke with the least
possible loss, and the second to discipline them, and accustom them to
order, obedience, and nobler pursuits in life, in a locality suited for his
purpose. At Etham ('the bastions'l the wanderers accordingly changed
the direction of their route, and turned to the S. between the W. bank
of the bitter lakes and the E. slope of the Gebel Ahmed Taber, and,
after a long and fatiguing march, encamped at Pi-Hahiroth, the name of
which has been identified with the modern tAgvild (-in being the Egyptian for place). They then ramped for the last time in Egypt near the
Red Sea, between Migdol, a frontier fort, near the ancient Kimbysu,
where a Roman military hospital afterwards stood (about 9 ill. to the N.
of the head of the bay and the scanty remains of the ancient Arsinoi0, and
the'Ataka mountains. This range was anciently called Ba'al Zephon, and
on its commanding summit the Phasnieian sailors used to offer sacrifices
to Ba'al Zephon, or the F. Wind, which wafted their ships towards the South.
- When Pharaoh heard that the people had not crossed the line of fortifications, and had quitted the route to Syria, on which lay the famous
temple of the desert on Mount Casius, where Noses had intended sacrificing
to his God, it was natural for him to say -'they are entangled in the land,
the wilderness hath shut them in' (Exodus xiv. 3). His mistrust was next
mused .--'And it was told the king of Egypt that the people tied: and the
heart ofPhnraoh and of his servants was turned against the people, and

struction. Diodorus also mentions an expedition undertaken by Artaxerxes, King of Persia, against Egypt, during which part of the Persian
army was lost in the Sirbonic lake, with the dangers of Which they were
entirely unacquainted. The main route from Egypt to Syria traversed
the narrow neck of land between the Sirbonic lake and the Mediterranean
(see p. 426). The Jews, after their arrival at the lake, first eucamped at
Pi-Hah-iroth (Le. the'mouth of the chasms covered with reeds"), and
then followed the usual military route between the waters to the shrine
of Ba'al Zephon [ see p. 426). They then turned to the S. in consequence
of the divine command, traversed the desert of Sitar (see p. 426), and
arrived in three days at March (i.e. bitter), or the three bitter lakes in
the isthmus (see p. 433). They proceeded thence to Elim, which is
doubtless identical with the Aarlim m- Tentiim the. town of the fishes)
mentioned by the monuments, a place situated near the Gulf of Suez.
The Egyptians, however, in the course of the pursuit, as they were traversing the narrow neck of land between the Sirbonic lake and the Mediterranean, were overtaken by a storm and inundation, lost their way,
fell into the Sirbonic lake, and were drowned. The occurrence of such
floods in this district is borne out by an observation of Strabo, that a
great flood took place during his residence in this region near Mount
onsine tsee Note, p. 426), overflowing the country to such an extent,
that Mount Casius appeared like on island, and that the road to Pales.
tine near it was navigable for vessels. The sea mentioned in the Bible,
through which the Israelites passed, would, according to this theory, noi
be the Red Sea but the Sirbonic lake'.



