WADI WERDAN. 10. Route. 485

they sat why have we done this, that we have let Israel go from serving
as? (Exodus xiv. 5 ]. The pursuitnow began,'he made ready his chariot,
and took his people with him: and he took 600 chosen chariots, and all
the chariots of Egypt, and captains over every one of them. And the Lord
hardened the heart of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and he pursued after the
children of Inner, Whilst the Israelites were eneamped at Pi-Hahiroth
the disciplined army approached; they departed hastily, and succeeded
in crossing the head of the gulf at low tHe, as was frequently done by
the caravans before the construction of the canal The Egyptians, in hot
pursuit, reached the ford before the tide had begun to set in; but a
violent gale from the saw. sprang up, the waters rose suddenly and
'covered the chariots, and the horsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh
that came into the sea after them, there remained not so much as one
of them

From Suez to Mount Sinai by Maghara and Waidi Firan.

From Suez to (21/2 hrs.)'Ain Mdsa, see p. 419.

Beyond'Ain Musa the route traverses the dei el --" Ira'n, and
afterwards an undulating region. On the hill-sides specimens of
isinglass-stone are frequently found. To the right stretches the
sea, beyond which rise the spurs ofthe'Atfiha mountains (p. 415);
on the left are the heights of the Jcbcl cr-Rdlta, and, farther on,
those of the Tth Chain (p. 524). About o M. from'Ain Muse
begins a monotonous tract, which extends for a distance of'30 M.
in the direction of the Widi el-rAmira. The whole distance to the
Widi Gharaudel (p. 487), Which takes two days, is destitute of
variety, and is particularly fatiguing on the return-route, even in
fine weather. If, moreover, the Khamsin (p. 69) begins to blow
and to raise dense clouds of dust, the patience of the traveller is
severely tried, and the journey seems interminable. Near the
beginning of the plain, the so-called Derb Far'tm (or'road of the
Pharaohs'), skirting the coast, diverges to the right to the Jcbcl
lilammam Far'fin (p. 4881, while another route to the left leads to
the Jebcl cr-Raha and the desert of Et-Tih. We follow the camel
track which runs between these two.

We next cross (2 hrs.) several wadis, the most important of
which is the broad Wddi Sudz'tr, adjoined by the Jebel Bishr or Sudr'tr on the left, and separating the hills of Er- { Aha and Et-Tih.
After a journey of fully 5 his. from the beginning of the plain we
reach the Wadi Warden. The surface of the desert is sprinkled at
places with sharp hints, which are perhaps fragments of nodules
burst by the heat, and resemble arrow-heads, knives, and other
implements (comp. p. 370).

We traverse the Wédi Werilin in 11/4 hour. Yellow hills of
sand rise on the right, and the sea and the African coast continue
visible for some time. On the left the Wuja Hills, which belong
to the Tih chain, approach the route, and we obtain a fine retrospect of the Jebel Sudfir [ see above). The sea disappears,
but is afterwards again visible. The hills assume more picturesque forms. The light-lured limestone hills, and the whitish






