486 Route 10. WADI'AMKRA. From Suez

yellow surface of the desert, present a remarkably colourless
appearance, but the soil is not entirely destitute of vegetation,
especially in spring One of the commonest plants is the Bethar0n
[ Cautolina fragrantissima), of which the camels are very fond, and
which is full of aromatic juice; it is collected by the natives in the
N. part of the peninsula Golden colocynths Laandal; Citrullus
colocynthis) are sometimes seen lying on the way-side, having
fallen from their dark green stems. The dried shells are sometimes
used by the Beduins for holding water, or as a receptacle for butter.
The inside of the fruit is sometimes used as amedicine. The SeyU
(Acacia tortilis) occurs frequently farther S.; the juice which it
exudes (Gum Arabic) is collected by the Beduins for sale. Chewing
the gum is said to be a good remedy for thirst.

The (11/2 Ins.) Wadi el-'Amara, and beyond it the IJajer erRekkab C'rider's stone'), consisting of several masses of rock, are next
reached. The ground becomes more undulating. In the distance,
to the S., rise the Jebelljmmmim Far'ostp. 488) and the long
Jebet Ghamndel (p. 487). In less than 2 hrs. we next reach the
sand-hills in the waai Hawara, 011 the summit of which a bitter
spring rises. Around it grow a number of stunted palm-bushes
and a few thorns. This is believed to be the Marah of the Bible,
mentioned by Moses (Exodus, xv. 23-25). + Burckhardt conjectures that the juice of the berry of the gharkad (Nitrasia tridentata
Desi), a shrub growing in the neighbouring Wtdi Gharandel,
may have the property, like the juice of the pomegranate, of improving brackish water; but the Arabs know of no plant possessing

the virtue of that thrown into the spring by Moses.

Stations of the Israelites in the Wilderness, and member of the Emigrants. The Biblical record of these stations continues as follows (Numb.
S): -'And they departed from before Pi-Hahiroth, and passed
through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, and went three days
journey in the wilderness of Etham, and pitched in Narah. o. And
they removed from Mar-ah, and came unto Elim: and in Elim were twelve
fountains of water, and threesome and ten palm trees; and they
pitched there.' The desert of lithium (which adjoined the bastions of
Khetam) may now he traversed more quickly by a Sinai pilgrim with
little luggage; but it could hardly have been crossed by a whole nation
in less than three days. [ liar-ah is thus the bitter spring in the ll'ddt'
"( mm- (z, and Elm, with its twelve springs and seventy palms, has long
been sought for in the Wadi Gha-ramlet, although, as we shall see, the
distance from Hawara to Gharandel (21urs0 is a very short journey, even
fur so large a number.

Standing on the margin of the spring of 11mm, the thoughtful
traveller will naturally ask, how 000,000 men with their families, that
is, at least two million persons, could possibly have drunk of its water's. H

f 23.'And when they came to 1111:1111, they could not drink of the
waters of Marsh, for they were bitter; therefore the name of it was
called Marah fi.e. hitter). 24. And the people murmured against Moses,
saying What shall we drink? 25. And he cried unto the Lord, and the
Lord showed llllll a tree, which when he had cast into the waters, the
waters were made sweet".

"'And the children of Israel journeyed from limnoscs
to Succoth about (500,000 men on foot that were men, beside children'.



