to Sinai. WAD ] GHARANDEL. 10. Route. 487

Even if we assume that the volume of water was more copious in the
time of the Exodus, owing to the more luxuriant vegetation, many
other circumstances would still combine to render it improbable that
two million persons could have partaken of it. The probability is that
these high figures are a mythical embellishment of the historical facts.
Schleiden has pointed out, that if the Israelites had numbered two
million as the Bible records, they would have formed a sufficiently dense
population for the whole peninsula. For such a gigantic caravan a million gallons of water a day would hardly have sufficed, without allowing
for the cattle, and at the present day the Beduins begin to feel anxious,
when a party of a few hundreds encamps around their springs. The
number 600,000 has probably originated from the poetical accounts of the
miraculous preservation of the people, who gratefully ascribed so great
miracles to their protecting God, in order the more effectually to extol
his power. These numbers should, doubtless, be very greatly reduced,
and so also should the forty years, which the Israelites are said to have
spent in the wilderness. It was obviously the purpose of their leaders
to inure the people to the privations of the desert, in order to prepare
them for the battles they were about to fight in Palestine, but the sacred
number forty, which is so often repeated, and which was used to signify
a generation, most probably indicates a term of years; we may also
observe that Moses was forty years old when he fled, eighty when he led
the people into the wilderness, and one hundred and twenty when he
died. The fact that the Arabian literature contains a number of writings called'Arbainftt', or tales in which the number forty plays a
conspicuous part, alfords a confirmation of the above view.
Immediately before us rises the curiously shaped Jebel Gharandel (Gerendel, Kharaudel, Gurundel), the name of which occurs at an early period. Its slopes have been compared to'petrified
cushions". It is possible that the Wadi Which descends to the Gulf
of Suez gave its name of Charandra, used during the Roman period,
to the N. part of the Arabian gulf, where Ptolemy ll. founded the
town of Arsinoii. In the Itinerary of Antonine the place is called

Gurandela.

The Widi Gharandel (reached in 2 hrs. from the spring in the
Wadi Beware), which runs for a long distance to the N.E., affords,
near the sea, and particularly at the spot crossed by the Sinai route,
amoderate supply of slightly brackish, but drinkable, water, especially after heavy rain, in consequence of which the desert here is
clothed with pleasing, though not luxuriant, vegetation. Among
the plants are several lofty and bushy palms, seyz'il trees (p. 486),
gharkad shrubs, and tamarisks. Small groups of rocks on the
margin of the oasis enhance the comparative picturesqueness of
the valley, which was perhaps once better watered and more richly
clothed with vegetation. Thus B. von Breideubach [ 15th cent),
one of the first travellers who identified Gharandel with Elim,
observed here a shrub bearing nuts, about the size of hazel-nuts,
and known as Pharaoh nuts, but which is now extinct. If this is
the Elim of the Bible, the 12 springs and 70 palm-trees are
greatly reduced in number. The remains of two hermit-cells, hewn
in the rocks, are not worth visiting. The Widi Gharandel, owing
to its supply of water, is a favourite camping-place for the night.

The route, farther on, at first ascends slowly. In 1 u. we reach






