488 Route 10. JEBEL nan-IMAM FAR'fiN. From Suez

the sepulchral mound of I.lotstm Abt Zehneh),
on which the Beduins, in passing, throw a stone or a handful of
sand, as a mark of contempt, exclaiming----'here is food for the
horse of Abfi Zenneh.' The story goes, that an Arab called Abil
Zenneh cruelly over-rode his mare, and, when she broke down,
spurred her so violently, that she gave a final, long bound, and
then dropped down dead. The hard-hearted rider marked the
marvellous length of the last leap of his horse with stones, and
every passer-by now adds to the heap in token of disapproval.

A little farther on we obtain a fine view: facing us rises the
three-peaked Surbat el-Jemel (p. 5'24 ], to the 3.111. tower the
summits of the Jebel el-Bendt, to the left
are the heights of Et- Tilt, and to the right the Jebel U.stt. We next cross the [ 3/4 hr.) Wridi Usé'f,
which contains several pools of water and palm saplings, and
which has erroneously been identified with the Elim of the Bible
(see above). The only circumstance in favour of this theory is, that
the Wadi Usit. is more distant from the Wiidi Irasvtra (Marah) than
the Wadi Gharandel, which, however, lies much nearer the latter
than a full day's journey.

About 2 hrs. beyond the above-mentioned hillock of stones we
enter the dei Kuwéseh, a spacious basin enclosed and traversed
by low sand-hills, and lying at the base of the Jehel Usf-t aml
Jehel llammém Farin.

The Jehel Eammém Farrian (156711. above the se level ], or the'Bath
of Pharaoh', is most conveniently ascended from this point, and is chietly
interesting to geologists. Half-a-day at least is required for the excursion, and the traveller should be provided with refreshments. The
mountain is in the form of a blunted pyramid, with a very extensive
base, the limestone on its slopes is remarkably jagged and furrowed.
At several places there are warm springs, which are still used by the
Arabs, particularly as a cure for rheumatism. Before using the water
they are in the habit of presenting a cake or other offering, to the spirit
of Pharaoh, which still haunts the spot, in order to propitiute him. One
tradition is, that Pharaoh still lies here in the hot water, where he is
to be eternally boiled for his sins. Another legend is to the ett'eet, that,
when Pharaoh was drowned in the Red Sea, he saw Noses standing on
a rock of the Jebel 1111111111111 Farin, and was so infuriated at the sight,
that the water closing over him was spouted up to a great height by the
violence of his panting. Ever since then his spirit has haunted this
spot, and every ship that approaches the Jebel JJarntniim t? arTon is
doomed to sink. - This legend is supplemented by another, which is also
told by the Arabs, that when the Jews would not believe that Pharaoh
was really drowned, God ordered the sea to throw up his body. Since then
bodies of drowned persons have been invariably cost up on the beach.

'The caverns in the Jehel l_lammfim Fnr'fin. which are frequently
tubular in form and resemble long pipes, slope rapidly downwards in the
direction of the strata of the rock, 1111111 \1'.111 E. and from 53". to
NIL, communicating, doubtless, with the hot springs, as I found them
completely filled with steam. 111 the largest of these caverns, the
entrance of which is 13 ft. wide, and which lies several fathoms above
the hot springs, lobserved, at a distance ufti ft. from the entrance,
that the temperature was 102° Faint, while that of the outer air was W".
The vapor which filled the chamber had at sulphur-eons smell, and a
slight incrustation of sulphur covered the wall at places.' (J. Russegger.)



