to Sinai. WADI TAYYIBEH. IO. Route. 489

The hot springs are situated on the N. side of the mountain, facing
the sea; they are easily found without a guide, owing to the steam
which envelopes them. There is a good bathing-place at the point where
they flow into the sea from the white rock, but the bather should beware
of sharks. Higher up, the springs are very hot. When the temperature
of the air was 90°, that of the water was found to be 153". The water
is slightly saline; according to an analysis made by J. Russegger of
Vienna, it contains soda, lime, tale, chloride of hydrogen, and sulphuric acid.

The route continues to follow the Willi Ignwéseh for 11/4 hr.Y
and then crosses the Wridi eth-Thrtl, a valley of considerable
breadth, which descends to the sea towards the S.W. in the form of
a narrow gorge. In about 1/2 u. more we reach the Wtidi Nhebtkeh.
In less than 1 hr. more we reach the junction of this valley with
the Wridi el-IIomr, through which (to the E.) runs the route to
Sinai via Srtrbfit el-Khddem, described at p. 524.

We follow the valley descending towards the sea, now called
the Wadi Iayyiheh, with numerous windings, some remarkable
rock formations, several springs of bad water, and a few stunted
palms. The route traverses a number of round hollows of considerable size, enclosed amphitheatrically by barren slopes of whitish
grey sand and by rocks. The steep sides of these basins look
from a distance as if they had been made artificially. The area
in the centre is often so completely enclosed that no outlet is
visible. Each quarter of an hour we obtain a different view, though
the colouring is always the same. A striking exception to the
last remark is afforded by the very curious appearance of the Jebel
Tayyibeh, situated near the sea, and consisting of oblique strata of
different colours; the lowest of these is of a golden yellow tint, the
next is red, which is followed by a rusty black stratum, while
the whole is surmounted by a yellow layer.

After 13/4 hr. the valley expands, and we approach the open
sea, washing the banks of the sandy plain of Et-Mnhfiir, After a
walk of 11/2111'. along the coast we reach the Ras Abn Zeuimeh,
which still bears the tomb of the saint, and affords a beautiful
and sheltered camping-ground. At this spot (more probably than
in the \'adi Tayyibeh, as supposed by some authorities) was situated
the encampment of the Israelites on the Red Sea (Numb. xxxiii.
IO). The old harbour is still occasionally used by the fishing-boats
of the Arabs. In ancient times the roads, by which ore and stone
were brought from the mines of the Widi Naghhra and Sarbfit elIihadem for farther conveyance by water, converged here.

Beyond Abfi Zeuimeh the route at first skim the sea for
11/2 hour. Travellers usually walk here, and amuse themselves by
picking up shells, as Sinai travellers have done from time immemorial. This custom is mentioned by Thiedmarus in the 13th cent.,
by Fabri, and by Breidenbach, the last of whom says, that'various
kinds of shells are to be found on the coast of the Red Sea, and
also white coral, and many beautiful stones', probably meaning by






