490 Route 10. WADI BUDRA. From Suez

the last expression the smooth fragments of quartz on the beach
On the margin of the narrow plain of the coast, to the left of the
route, rise curiously formed, yellowish, limestone hills piled up in
strata, one apparently resting on gigantic, shell-shaped pedestals
which have been formed by the action of the water. At the S. end
of these hills rises the Jebel el-Nokhel, a bold eminence abutting so
closely on the sea that it is washed by the waves at high water, in
which case the traveller must cross it by a path ascending in steps.

Beyond this hill we reach a plain, called El-Markha, of considerable extent', and not destitute of vegetation. It is bounded on
the NE. by the Jebet el-Markha (590 ft), a black hill, contrasting
strongly with its light-coloured neighbours. Proceeding to the 8.13.
for 21/4 hrs. more, we at length reach the more mountainous part
of the peninsula, which we enter by the Handle el-Laham, a valley
varying in width, and flanked with barren rocks of reddish and
grey tints. After 3/4 hr. we reach the mouth of the Wadi Ba'bu' on
the N., which is commanded by the dark Jebel Bebe, while on
the S. (right) begins the Wadi Shelal. Traversing the latter for
h It, we next enter the Wedi Budra. The winding route ascends
gradually. We pass several mountain slopes resembling huge walls
of blocks of stone, artificially constructed. Farther on we observe
grey and red granite rocks amidst other formations. In every direction lie long heaps of black, volcanic slag, strongly resembling the
refuse from foundries. Beside them lie numerous fragments of
brown, grey, and red stone, including felsite porphyry, which is
remarkable for thebright, brick-red colour ofthe orthoclase felspar.
Along the slopes rise cliffs and pinnacles of various colours and
grotesque forms. The route leads from one basin into another, each
of which has a horizon of its own, until (11/411127 we come to a
frowning barrier of rock which seems to preclude farther progress.
We soon find, however, that a steep bridle-path ascends in 1/4 hr.
to the Nah }: el-Budra for'pass of the sword's point', 1263 it), by
which we surmont the apparent barrier. This pass was traversed
in ancient times by the beasts of burden which transported the
minerals obtained in the Wédi Maghara to the sea; it then fell
into disrepair, but was restored in 1863 byahlajor Macdonald, who
made an unsuccessful search for turquoises in the old mines. The
summit of the pass commands a fine retrospective view of the wild
Wfidi llndra, the lifts Abii Zeilimehy the Jebel IJarnrmtnl Farrtin,
and the sea. Beyond the pass the valley is called the thdi Nrtlcb
el-Budra, through which we descend in 11/4 hr. to the Wadi Skin
a. winding valley enclosed by rocks of red granite.

We soon reach the Walt' Umm Themfin on the left, where
Messrs. Palmer and Wilson (in 1869) discovered mines similar to
those at Maghara. The [ 3/4111.) Witdi Magluirrt next diVerges to
the left. At the angle formed by the latter with the Wfidi Kaneh,
descending from the E., are situated the famous old mines of Mu


