to Sinai. MINES or MAGHARA. 10. Route. 491

gham, which deserve a visit (P hrs.; or, if a thorough inspection
is made, half-a-day").

The Mines of Maghara. The brown and brick-red slopes of
the Widi Maghara rise precipitously to a considerable height. They
belong partly to the sandstone, and partly to the granite formation.
The mines are situated on the slopes on the N.W. side, about
145 ft. above the bottom of the valley. The traveller has to
scramble over heaps of rubble before reaching the broad but low
openings of the mines, which seem once to have been protected
by a gallery, now scarcely traceable. The shaft penetrates the rock
to a considerable depth, being very wide at first, but afterwards
contracting. Numerous pillars have been left for the support of
the roof; old chisel marks are still observable. At many places
the reddish stone contains small bluish-green, very impure turquoises, which may easily be detached with a penknife. These
stones lose their colour entirely after a few years. On the route to
the Wildi Firan (p. 494) the Deduins frequently offer for sale large,
but worthless, turquoises at exorbitant prices.

Small pillars with hieroglyphic inscriptions still commemorate
the period when the mines were worked for the benefit of the
Pharaohs. On large smooth surfaces of the rocky walls these ancient
monarchs have handed down to posterity, by means of figures and
writing, the fact that they conquered the Mentu, who inhabited
these regions, and provided for the wants of their miners. A
gigantic Pharaoh is represented grasping the necks of a number of
the vanquished with one hand, while with the other heisbrandishing a weapon (khopshj, Sacrifices are also represented, and festivals,
and a visit paid to the mines by inspectors of high rank. The oldest
king named here is Snefru (p. 523), the first king of the 4th Dynasty.
The next are Khufu (Cheops, p. 86), the builder of the Great
Pyramid of Gizeh, another monarch of the 4th dynasty; Sahura,
Kaka, Raeuuser7 Menkauhor, Tatkara (Assa), of the 5th Dynasty;
Pepi-Merira and Neferkara, of the 6th Dynasty (p. 87); Usertesen II. and Amenemha 111., of the 12th Dynasty. During the
domination of the lkasos the mines were neglected; but after their
expulsion, the working was resumed by Hatasu, the energetic sister
and co--regent of Thothmes 111., who has caused her ships, returning richly-laden from Arabia, to be represented at Dér el-Bahri
(Thebes). There is also a pillar here dating from the time of
Ramses 11., but no monument now exists of the reign of his son
Merenptah, the Pharaoh of the Exodus, nor of the later kings.

The mineral obtained here is called Mafkat in the inscriptions. It
was of a decided green colour, and is elsewhere represented in bars of
this mm shape, and marked'genuine' to distinguish it from the'imitation'. The results of the careful researches of Lepsius have also been
confirmed by Professor Credner's geological investigations. The genuine
mafkat, which does not occur here, was probably the emerald, while
the inferior quality, which was often imitated, was malachite, verdigris,
green smelt, and the green colour prepared from the last. The imitation






