, to Sinai MAGIIAHA. H). Route. 493

the second wears the crown of Upper Egypt, and the third

that of Lower Egypt y, both representing Pharaoh as the monarch



of S. and N. Egypt respectively. The rope, hammer, and chisel
(implements which were still used in the time of the Ptolemies
whenever a foundation-stone was laid), which they hold in their
hands, show that the king was once present here to inaugurate the
opening of a new mine. The shape of the chisel is curious. The
fourth and fifth figures represent Pharaoh chastising the miners.

The hill, about 200 ft. in height, opposite to the entrance of
the mines, is also worthy ofa visit. On the further side are the
ruins of Major sAlaedonald's house, and the summit is crowned with
the remains of a fort and of the mining settlement of the period of
the Pharaohs. Here also are found various tools offlint, particularly
arrow-heads and sharp instruments, which were perhaps used for
engraving inscriptions. The old road, once used by the miners,
descending the hill and leading towards the S., with a bend
towards the E, is still traceable. - There is a spring about
25 min. distant from Major Macdonald's ruined house.

Wadi Maghdra, a station of the Israelites during the Exodus. The
neighbourhood of the R33 Abit Zenimeh is believed by most expounders
of the Bible to have been the site of the camp on the Red Sea (p. 459).
The sacred narrative [ humh xx ii. 11) continues as follows. - "And
they removed from the Red sea, and encamped in the wilderness of
Sin. 1?. And they took their journey out of the wilderness of sin, and
encamped in Dophkah.' In the book of Exodus (xvi. 1. el seq.) we find
farther particulars of this portion of the journey. We are informed
there. that the whole of the people complained bitterly against Moses
and Aaron for having led them out of Egypt, Elm!" g them of having,
brought them'forth into this wilderness, to kill this whole assembly
with hunger.'

Many authorities identify the wilderness of Sin with the bleak coastplain of El haa, which extends from lifts Abii Zenimch to Tur and
beyond it; but it is more probably identical with the desolate, rocky
tract which we traversed on the route from Has Ahu Zenimeh to the
"Wadi Maghfira. Dophkah is the Widi Maghftra. Enclosed by bleak and
abrupt rocks, the multitude, accustomed to the extensive plain, would
naturally be alarmed and depressed, and would murmur against their
leaders.

A little beyond the mouth of the'\'adi Maghara, the Wadi Sidr
turns to the s., skirting the Jebel Alht'AM.ka t20'23 ft.), and after
fully an hour leads to a large table-land. To the E., opposite to us,
is the mouth of the Wfizli Neba', and to the S. lies the WadiMokatteb, i.e.'Valley oflnscriptions', which we now follow. On the W.
side of this broad valley rises the Jebel Molmtteb (2380 ft), at the
foot of which, extending down to the floor of the valley, are strewn
blocks of sandstone, several of them bearing the famous so-called
"Inscriptions of Sinai'. Most of them are on the western side of the
valley. Those who do not intend to make scientific investigations
need only devote a few minutes to the inscriptions in passing.

Most of the Biaaitie Inscriptions are in the Nahataean character, others



