34 GEOGRAPHICAL NOTICE. Administration.

Lower and Upper Egypt (the latter known as Sa'id') are now
each divided into seven liovtNcrss or Murli'riyeh. Those of Upper
Egypt are; (C) fialyO, at the head of the Delta; ('2 Slutryveh,
i.e.'the eastern', with Zakazih as its capital; (3) Imlmhliyeh,
with Mansfira as its capital; (A) iilrurbiyelr, Le.
'the western', with'l'anta as its capital; LG) Bchérch, i.e.'of
the lake', with Damanhdr as its capital; (77") 077.511, opposite to
Cairo. The seven Upper Egyptian provinces are those of Bani-SUM,
Minyeh, Sifts, Girgeh, Keneh, Esneh, and Widi WW. The seat
of the mudir or governor of Girgeh has recently been transferred
to the not far distant smog. The Fayr'un forms a mudiriyeh by
itself. The following capitals and commercial towns are presided
over by governors of their own, and are independent of the
provincial administration: Cairo, Alexandria, Suez, Port Sa'id,
Damietta, Rosetta, lsrna'iliya, andlastly the small seaport of lioslir
on the Red Sea.

The administration of the Upper Egyptian provinces, and still
more those of the N'ulim, is liable to frequent change, several of
them being sometimes united under a governor-general, and at
other times again disjoined, or managed by a commission appointed
by the minister of the interior. The recently acquired seaports on
the Red Sea have governors (mudlrs) of their own, and they in their
turn are under the supervision of a governor-general (hokmdfir)
resident at Kassala. These last districts are (or were) known as
the East b'fidan, while the government of the West Stulin was centralised at lihartfim. Before the outbreak of the revolution the West
$ 11115)! consisted ofthe provinces of Bahr-el-Ghazal
and the Equator. The last two provinces include almost the whole
region of the Upper White Nile and are inhabited solely by negro
tribes. Kurt.cstn was the seat of a governor-general whose jurisdiction extended over the whole of the provinces beyond the limits
of Egypt in the mummer sense. Lastly, the Nubian part of the
Valley of the Nile is divided into the provinces of Donhola and
"erber, which are administered independently of each other, the
capital of the former being lil-'Ordeh, that of the latter lil-Mekhérif
(or Berber).

The chief official in every province is the Mudir, or governor,
who is aln a council, er supreme judge,
and the chief authority in spiritual matters; sometimesthe president
ofa chamber of commerce and chief authority in civil affairs; a
superintendent of police; an architect for the supervision of canals
and other public works; and lastly the chief physician of the province. The sub--governors in the smaller towns, who are under the
jurisdiction of the Mudir, are sometimes called Krishif, or firigir



