494 Route 10. Wle MOKATTEB. From Sues

in Greek, and a few in Coptic and Arabic. They are roughly and superficially engraved on the rock, which has been very rarely smoothed for
the purpose, and the small figures are often extremely rude and inartistic. They represent armed and unarmed men, travellers and
warriors, laden and unladen camels, horses with and without riders and
attendants, mountain goats, ships. crosses, and stars. A priest with
raised arms, and an equestrian performer, are worthy of notice. Ctmmns
tIndirvpbeustmi, or the'Indian traveller'), who visited the Peninsula of
Sinai in All 535 and saw these inscriptions, believed them to be in the
Hebrew language, and to have been executed by the Israelites during
the Exodus, and marvellously preserved by providence, in order that they
might serve as'witnesses to the unbelieving'. It is now ascertained that
the oldest of these inscriptions cannot have been written earlier than the
2nd century B, C., while the most recent are notlater than the beginning
of the 4th cent. A.D., and that most of them are to be ascribed to the
heathen Nabataeans, who adhered to the Sabman rites, and worshipped
the sun, mount and stars, especially on high mountains, such as Mounts
Scrlial and Sinai. No Christian names occur, but many of the writers call
themselves'servants','reverers', or'priests' of the'sun', the'moon', and
'Baal', and other early Arabian divinities. - The authors of these inscriptions were doubtless travellers, partly merchants, and partly pilgrims
to the holy places in the Wiidi Mokatteb, among which Mount Serlial
was certainly reckoned at a very early period. The inscriptions which
they rudely engraved to commemorate their visit, were that deciphered
by Prof. Beer (d. ISM) of Leipsie. and afterwards more completely by
Tech. Near the sacred places, and particularly in the Wiidi Mekatteb,
festivals, with markets and shows, were held. Some of the Greek inscriptions are of later date, having evidently been engraved over the
Naliatwan. By the figure of a'Diakonos llinb', a soldier, who was
hostile to the Nazarenes, has written: -'a had set of people these"; I,
the soldier, have written this with my own hand.'

The S. entrance to the Win" Mokatteb, a valley about 31/2 M.
in length, is closed by a spur of the mountain of that name, which
our route crosses. Beyond the pass (152011), whence we obtain an
excellent survey of the imposing mass of Mt. Serbal, the route
traverses heights and hollows strewn with small stones. The red
rubble looks like fragments of bricks, and the slopes resemble
dilapidated walls of loose stones.

After 3/4hr. we enter the dei Firan, which is here of considerable breadth. This valley, which is probably the most important
in the peninsula, begins above the Oasis of Firein, at the base of
the Serbfil, and, after describing a wide curve, terminates near the
coast The granite slopes, flanking the valley, are not far apart at
places, while in other parts the valley expands to a considerable
width. The grey primitive rock, veined with reddish-brown porphyry and black diorite, rises in picturesque forms; these veins
run almost invariably from N. to s. The picturesqueness of the
scene is greatly enhanced by the imposing summits of the barren
mountains towering above the slopes of the valley to the south
At the entrance of the valley, where at the foot of the Jebel Nam"
the small what of that name opens on the left, are several round
heaps of stones belonging to ancient tombs. On our right next
diverges the Watch Nediyeh, on the left the dei cr-Remmrfineh and
the Wofdi Mokhtres, and to the right again the Wtdi el-Feehtlieh,
the two last being commanded by peaks of the same names. The



