to Sinai. WAD ] FIRM. 10. Route. 495

next valleys on the right are the deis ed-Dér, Neuron, Et- Tan,
and Abfi Gcrréydt; and opposite the latter opens the Wddi Fofr, a
valley of greater extent. A little before reaching the oasis, we pass
a rock called the llégi el-Khutmtin, which is entirely covered with
small stones. Prof. Palmer was the first traveller who was told
by the Beduins that this rock was the one which yielded water
when struck by Moses.

The plants of the desert now occur more frequently, and are of
more vigorous growth; bushes of tamarisk, the nebk, the seyil, and
palm-trees, make their appearance, and the scene is enlivened by
the notes of birds of grey and dark plumage. We now quit the
desert, and with feelings of unmitigated delight, after a hot journey of more than She. in the wan Firan, we enter the Oasis of
Firan, the'Pearl of Sinai", and by far the most fertile tract in the
whole peninsula. We first reach the dale of El-Hesweh, a few
hundred paces only in length, watered by an inexhaustible brook
which is suddenly swallowed up by the earth here, after having
converted the whole of the valley above this point into a luxuriant
garden in the midst of the desert. The gardens are watered by
means of Shadfifs or buckets; the dates grown here are celebrated.
Every tree has its proprietor, who obtains the whole of its produce,
even when he lives at a distance, his property being protected by
the honest Beduins of the oasis and the inmates of the monastery.
On the road-side, and on the left slope of the valley, are Beduin
huts, gardens, and the ruins of stone houses, dating from the time
of the ancient Firan. In 1/4 hr. more we reach a second small
group of palms, and for a few minutes we obtain a view of the W.
side of Mount Serbal. In 20 min. more we reach a wider part of the
valley, in which the rocky and isolated hill of El-Jllelwrret rises to
a height of about 100 ft., bearing on its summit the traces of an
early Christian monastery and church. Exactly opposite the ruin
of the monastery the traveller should notice a very curious geological formation, consisting of a vein of green diorite in flesh-coloured porphyry, which is in its turn imbeddedin green mica--slate.
The largest fragment of the ruins, called Irererat et-Netrtr, stands
on the summit of the hill which the Beduins regard as the spot
where Moses prayed during the battle with the Amalekites (Exodus, xvii. 10), and at its base the relics of a large church are still
traceable. Fragments of columns and ornaments, which once belonged to it, are to be found built into the walls of the houses.
The Wfidis Ejeleh and'Aleydt, valleys diverging here, are watered
in winter by streams from the mountains which are sometimes
covered with snow. This picturesque spot is a favourite haltingplace with the Bednins owing to the facilities for watering the
camels. The best camping-ground is alittle to the E. of the entrance to the Wzidi'Aleyat, and in such a position as to command
a view of the pinnacled summit of Mt. Serbal (p. 497).



