496 Route Jo. OASIS or FinftN. From Suez

History. The (msis nf F l was probably occupied at a very early
period by the Amalekites, and outside of its gates was doubtless fought
the battle in which they were defeated by the Israelites. The town of
the Oasis is even called by hlahrizi a city of the Amalekites, long after
the Christians had been expelled from it by the Muslims. The Oasis is
mentioned by Diodorus only before the Christian period. but in the 2nd
cent. Ad). Claudius Ptolemaeus speaks of the town of mere », which
soon became an Episcopal See and the central point of the monastic and
anchorite fraternities of the peninsula. Remains of old monasteries and
hermits' cells are nowhere more numerous than here, and on the rocky
slopes and plateau, of the Serbfil. In the 4th cent. we hear of the town
being governed by a senate. and about the year 400 the spiritual affairs
of the country were presided over by Bishop Nateras or Nathyr. The
council of Chalcedon accorded to the oasis an archbishop of its own.
who, however, was subordinate to the recently founded patriarchate of
Jerusalem. In 454 Macarins is mentioned as bishop of Pharan. The solitary monasteries among the mountains suffered frequently from the
attacks of the Blemmyes and Saracens, who, however, did not venture
to attack the well-guarded city of the oasis, which paid tribute to their
shekhe. The Romans were nominally masters of l'haran, but in reality
it was subject to the sway of the Saracen princes, and one of these, named Abokharagor, presented it to Justinian, who. as a reward, appointed
him phylarch of the Saracens of Palestine. Early in the 5th cent. the
monks and anchorites of Pharan began to embrace heretical principles,
and we frequently, hear of admonitions and threats directed by the orthodox synods and the Emperors against them as Monothelites and Monophysites .--According to the trustworthy testimony of Procnpius, his
contemporary Justinian (527-505) was not the founder of the present mnnastery of Sinai, as inscriptions of the 13th cent. built into its walls
erroneously state, but be erected a church to the Virgin halfway up the
Jebel Mime, probably on the site of the present chapel of Elijah, and
also constructed and garrisoned a strong fortress at the foot of the
mountain, on the site of the present monastery of St. Catharine, in order
to prevent the Saracens of the peninsula from invading Palestine. It
was doubtless the protection afforded by this castle that gradually attracted
the numerous hermits of the peninsula from the Serbzil to the Jebel
Miisa, which they made the scene of a number of old Christian legends.
Pharan was at an early period regarded as the site of the llephidim of
the Bible (see below). Eusebius of Cmsarea (h. 270), and his translator
Jerome, state that the battle of the Amalekites took place near l'haran.
Cosmas (535), who visited the Oasis in person, states that Rephidim, where
Noses struck the rock, lay near Pharan, and the account of Antoninus
Martyr of his entry into Pharan shows that regularly organised pilgrimages
to llephidim took place. Among other objects the natives offered small
casks of radish-oil (Rhaphanino oleo) to the pilgrims, which were probably carried off as mementoes of Bephidim, as its name (raphanus, raphaninus) imports. - After the dissemination of El-Islam the anchorites
gradually became extinct.

Ilephidim and the Bible Narrative (comp. p. 493). In the Book of
Numbers (xxxiii. 1341) we find the following passage:'And they departed from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush. And they removed from
Alush, and encamped at Rephidim, where was no water for the people to
drink't - Alush was probably situated between the With Magnum and
the 1Triidi Ftrriiu, and Rephidim in the'Vadi Fir-fin at the entrance of the
oasis. The 17th chapter of the Book of Exodus contains important additional information. We are there informed that the people murmured
against Moses, and reproached him with having led them out of Egypt
to die of thirst; whereupon'Noses cried unto the Lord', who commanded
him to strike the rock with his staff. And Muses did so, and the rock
yielded a copious spring. Amalek then came and fought with the Isra.e ] ~
ites at Rephidim, and the battle is described. The Bible narrative
presents to us a picture of Muses stationed on a rock which commanded
the battlefield, and praying, while Aaron and Ilur "stayed up his hands";



