to Sinai. SERBKL. 10. Route. 497

and we are told, that when he raised his hands, Israel had the mastery,
and when he let them fall. Amalek had the mastery. And Joshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword' .--It is
natural that a battle should have been fought on the outskirts of the
oasis, as the Amalekite possessor-s of this fertile island in the midst of
the desert would he very unlikely to yield up their valuable property
without a blow. We are then informed (Exodus xviii.), that Moses,
"where he encamped at the mount of God', organised the people by the
advice of Jethro, his father-in-law, who came to visit him, and chose
valiant men from all Israel, whom he set over them'to he rulers of
thousands, and rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens'.
'And (Numb. xxxiii. 15) they departed from Rephidim, and pitched in
the wilderness of Sinai", and (Exodus xix. 2)'they were departed from
Rephidim, and were come to the desert of Sinai, and had pitched in the
wilderness; and there Israel camped before the mount. And Moses went
up unto God'. (Comp. R. Lepsius,'Reise nach der Halbinsel des Sinai',
Berlin 1876; and also,'Briefe ans Egypten', 1852, 1);) .417-452.)

The most conspicuous of the hills visible hence is the Jebet
ey- Flit" sneh (or Mill--Mountain), situated in a line with the menastery hill (to the N.), rising above the bed of the valley to the
height of 700 ft, and crowned with the ruin of a handsome church.
The steep, neglected path ascending to it is flanked with the remains of ancient chapels; and near it are many houses built of
loose stones. The windows of these look towards the outside, and
not into the court according to Oriental usage. The settlement is
enlivened with children, poultry, and dogs, and with its babbling
break almost resembles a Tyrolese mountain village. Farther N.
rises the summit of the lofty Jebel el--Bem'it (4017 (L), or the
'Mountain of the Virgins', sometimes called the Jebet el--Bint, or
'Mountain of the Virgin'. It is probably so called from a chapel of
the Virgin situated here, but the Beduins maintain that it derives
its name from two Tawara maidens, who had been ordered to marry
against their wishes, and who therefore fled to the mountains.
They were overtaken by their pursuers on the Jebel el-Benit, but,
rather than be captured, they plaited their tresses together and
precipitated themselves from the rocky summit into the abyss. On
the N. side of the valley are numerous tombs of hermits and monks
who spent their lives on Mt. Serbal and in the monastery of the
bishopric 0f Pharan. These tombs are mentioned by Makrizi so
early as 1440. Prof. Palmer re-discovered them, and observed that
the bodies had been buried in a line from E. to W., in coarse
shrouds and coffins of which traces remained.

Mount Serbal (6712 ft.; Le. Serb Ba'al, or'palm rove of Baal')
rises to the B. in the form of a broad, serrated pyramid.

THE ASCENT OF MOUNT SERBAL is difficult and fatiguing, and should
be attempted by experienced mountaineers only, especially as the guides
afford little assistance (the best of them is Husan el- Harbi). The expedition takes a whole day (the ascent 5 hi's. ], so that the start should be
made before sunrise. Strong boots are essential, the rocks being hard
and sharp.

The ascent is most conveniently made through the W511i'Aleydt on
the N. side, but it may also be made through the Wadi Seldf (p. 501)
and the dei er~Rimm on the S. side. If the traveller starts early enough
to reach the first oasis in the wadi er-Rimm by 8 a.m., the ascent hurl

Bungee" Egypt l, 2nd Ed. 32



