498 Route 10. SERBKL. From Sues

better be undertaken thence. In 3/4 hr. the second oasis is reached, and
in 1/. more the third, each of which contains tarfa bushes, arundo,
and three or four palms. After a steep ascent of an hour we reach a
ruined house; the route then passes (20 min.) a small pond bordered with
the jassa plant (Colutea haleppica Link., Arabic kasnfir) from which the
'staves of Moses (p. 512) are cut, and (20 min.) several caverns in the
flesh--coloured porphyry which were once occupied by anchorites. After
a. gradual ascent of one hour more. we reach the table-land of eizcelyth,
with the ruins of a monastery. If lllt. Serhfil is the Sinai of the early
hermits, this building must have been the scene of the atrocities committed by the Saracens which cost forty monks their lives (comp. p. 514),
and which have been described by Ammonius and hung. The ascent of
one of the peaks of Mt. Herbal begins here. The nearest N. peak is too
steep and dangerous to be attempted, but the second peak may be ascended by following a ridge of granite projecting from the crumbling
diorite. If the ascent of hit. Serbal has been made from the N, the traveller may return by Dér Silgelyih, but not unless he has satisfied himself, in the course of the ascent, that his guides are trustworthy.

Ascent of Mt. Serbtd from the N.E. side through the Wtidi
'Aleydt. The old Derb cs-Serbal, or Serbal route, being now impracticable, there is no proper path. The route at first follows a
narrow path, and traverses ridges of rocks, hollows, and ravines, and
small plains watered with springs and richly clothed with vegetation. It passes several cells of anchorites and traces of walls, and
then, for 3 hrs., ascends rapidly through the Wadi Abfi llamfid
(or valley of the wild figs). The ascent of the actual summit
(3/4 hr.) is extremely laborious, and should not he attempted by
persons inclined to giddiness. The veins of diorite afford the best
footing. The traveller should observe the caverns in the rock which
were once occupied by hermits, the ruins of their huts, the Sinaitic
inscriptions, and the traces of old paths, and of a flight of steps,
particularly near the summit.

The highest of the five peaks which form the summit of Mt.
Serbia ], and which are separated by deep ravines and chasms, is
called El-llledasza (the'beacon-house'). Fires used to be lighted
here either in honour ot'Baal, or, as Prof. Palmer conjectures, to
warn the anchorites of approaching danger. Many Sinaitic inscriptions still exist here. On the lower terrace of the peak is an artificial circle of stones in which the beacon-fires were probably
lighted. The view from the summit is very imposing; towards
three points of the compass the prospect is unimpeded, but towards
the S. it is concealed by the intervening pinnacles of Mt. Serbia ]
and the still higher Misa group. Towards the B. we survey the
Bay of'Ahaba, part of the arid territory of Arabia, and the interminable desert plateau of Tih, stretching to the distant heights of
Petra; towards the N. lies the Bay of Suez, and towards the W.
rise the hills between the Nile and the Red Sea.'Every detail of
these remarkable formations is distinctly visible hence. The Midis,
including the long, crescent-shaped Wfidi csh-Shékh, are seen
turning and winding in every direction. The innumerable hills
stand forth in prominent relief, with as well-defined colours as










