to Sinai. SERBfiL. 10. Route. 499

in Russegger's geological plan which we held in our hands; the
dark granite, the brown sandstone, the yellow desert, the strips of
vegetation flanking the Widi Firan, and the solitary green spot
occupied by the large groups of palms of Rephidim (assuming its

identity to be established), are all surveyed at a glance'.

Geological Formation. According to Fraas the chief formations of
Mount Serba ] are: - (1) Gnet'ss of grey colour and very fine grain, the
component parts of which are uniformly distributed, the mica giving it a
somewhat stratified appearance; (2) Red granite of great beauty, containing little or no mica-7 (3) Dimite porphyry, which frequently veins the
masses of gneiss and granite. The following are the principal [ arms of
diorite: - (1) Black diorite porphyry; (2) Dark green, and somewhat
dingy diorite; (3) Diorite resembling porphyry; (it) Polyhedric porphyry
of a pale- -red colour, containing occasional crystals of albite, and a few
grains of quartz, (5 ] Porphyry varying in colour from brownish to bloodred, and rough and granulated to the touch- (G) Porphyry in which pieces
of oligoclase, about an inch in length, are imhedded.Tu1quozses of finer
quality than those in the Wadi Maghara are also found here.

Is 11101011 Sal-brill the Sinai of Scripture? The traveller is reminded
that during the battle of the Amalekites, Moses prayed on a rock of Ho..
reb, that he received Jethro after the battle, when the people were encamped by the Mount of God, and that from the entrance to the oasis
(Rephidim) to the foot or hit. mai one days journey only is reckoned,
while a large caravan takes two days to reach the Jebel Milsa, and lastly,
that a person acquainted with the peninsula, as the leader of the lame'tes
undoubtedly was, would scarcely have acted wisely, if while receiving
the tables of the law, he had compelled the multitude entrusted to his
care to encamp for a prolonged period for from the best watered and
most fruitful spot on the whole route. As, moreover, Mt. Scrhal is by
far the most imposing mountain in the peninsula, as many traditions declare it to be the scene of God's revelation to Noses, as it has long been
regarded as holy, as Eusebius, followed by Cosmas and other Christian
authors, identifies it with the lloreb of the Bible, and as Pharan and Sinai
are always associated in the monkish chronicles and the resolutions of
the Councils, it would seem more justifiable to identify Mt. Serbal with
the Sinai of Scripture, than the Jehel Mfisa group. If) It. Serbal is the
Sinai of Scripture, Moses must have conducted his people from Rephidim
through the oasis, where both space and water were inadequate to their
wants, and through the defile of Buwéb, into one of the neighbouring
plains in the Vvadi esh-Shehh, whence the mountain is visible in all its
majesty. Whilst we are almost surrounded by an amphitheatre of hills
of moderate height the imposing rocky mass of Mt. Serhfil, towering
above them all, rises to the SAY., being more prominently and distinctly
visible here, than from any other part of the peninsula.'Mount Serbal',
observes Prof. Palmer,'seen from a little distance, exhibits such boldness
of outline, and such huge and conspicuous forms, that it is justly entitled
to be considered the grandest and most characteristic feature of the peninsula". Although the traveller must not expect to be able to identity
on Mt. Serbil every spot referred to in the Scriptural account of the
promulgation of the law, there is no doubt that the general topography
of the district harmonises well with that narrative On again referring
to the book of Exodus (xix. 17) we find this passage: -'And Moses brought
forth the people out of the camp to meet with God; and they stood at
the nether part of the mount'. We shall see that there would have been
no room for such a movement in the wadis Er-Raha or Seba'iyeh, adjoining the Jebel Musa group, whereas it was possible, and even necessary, to lead the people who were encamped beyond the oasis, towards
the foot of the mountain before us, perhaps as far as the hill of Meharret
and the lower part of the'Vadi rAleyat. No one can look upon the
conspicuous and majestic Mt. Serbal, without being convinced that it was
far more worthy of being the throne of Jehovah, than any of the less

32*



