500 Route 10. SERBKL. From Sues

imposing peaks of the Jebel Mi'isa group. If it be asked how the
glorious title of the'Mount of the Lord" came to be transferred from one
mountain to another, the question may be answered without much
difficulty. When the early Christians settled in the peninsula, they
fond no memorials of the Exodus, but arbitrarily assigned Old Testament
names to the various hills and valleys, a practice which, as we shall afterwards see, was imitated to excess by the monks of the [ monastery of
St. Catharine on the Jebel Niisa. One group of anchorites identified
lilt. Serbal, and another the imposing mountain situated farther to the
S., with'Mount Horeb'. As long as I'haran was a powerful place and
an episcopal see, its right to claim the title was generally recognised, but
after it had lapsed into heresy, this right was denied by the orthodox
church, and the hermits of the Jehel Mfisa group were expressly recognised as the genuine Sinuitcs, for whose protection Justinian caused
a castle to be built. The anchorites and Ccenobitcs of Mt. Scrbfil, who
were decimated by the frequently recurring attacks of the Saracens,
accordingly emigrated to the Jebel N1" 1sa for safety. We have already
cited a remarkable passage of early date, in which it is expressly stated,
that the monks of Sinai had emigrated from another mountain, and had
settled on the modern Sinai by God's command. See the writings of Lepsius already mentioned (p. 497), where these views were expressed for the
first time, and are fully discussed. Many critics have since adopted the
same theory.

Leaving the Moharrct hill (see p. 495), we proceed towards the
NE. under palm-trees. The ground becomes soft, and is carpeted
with turf, moss, and seeds, interspersed with blue and red flowers.
We pass rich fields of wheat, besides tobacco and other industrial
crops; the bushes are enlivened by birds, and flocks of sheep and
goats lie by the side of the brooks under the shade of the trees.
After 1 hr. the palm-trees leave off, and are succeeded by a thicket
of tarfa shrubs, which we traverseiu 1/4 hour. Many ofthese shrubs
assume the form of trees, 2h-3 ft, in circumference.

It is only in the lower part of the Wiidi esh-Shékh (p. 520), and here in
its prolongation, the Witch Firz'tn, so far as the latter is watered by the
brook, that these term plants yield the well-known Manna. Minute holes
are hand in the fine bark of the thin, brown twigs, by an insect (Coccns
manniparus) which was first observed by Ehrenberg, and from the almost
invisible openings issues a transparent drop of juice, which then falls "
and burdens in the sand. This sweet gum, resembling honey, which is
still called'man' by the Arabians, is collected and preserved in considerable quantities; the monks in the monastery generally keep a supply,
partly for their own use, and partly for sale, in tin boxes. In 1845 Lepsius
found the whole valley fragrant with manna as early as the end of March,
but it is usually most plentiful from the end of April to the end of
June, and the more so in proportion to the moisture of the preceding
winter.

Adjoining the rocky slopes on the left rise numerous tentshapcd mounds of earth, upwards of 100 ft. in height, which Fraas
takes to he the remains of ancient moraines. After 1/2 hr. the
Wtdi el-Akhyar (p. 521 ], leading towards the E., diverges to the
left. Opposite to it Opens the Wtdi Rattamch, to the W. of which
rises a hill situated to the S. (right) of the road, called the Jcbel
cl-lilunaja, i.e.'Mountain of the conversation between God and
Moses'. The Arabs still offer sacrifices here to Moses within a circle
of stones on the summit of the hill, singing -'O mountain of the
conversation of Moises, we seek thy favour; preserve thy good people,



