to Sinai. WADI SELAF. JO. Route. 501

and we will visit thee every year". Farther to the E. we reach in
1/4 hr. the defile of El-Buwéb, i.e. little gate, or Et-Bftb, ale. gate,
where the valley contracts to a width of about 20 ft. The Widi
Firin terminates here, and the wadi esh-Shékh (p. 520) begins.

The part of the wadi Firitn between the Bnrvéb and the Hermit,
which new forms the most fertile oasis in the peninsula, was once alake,
as is proved by the deposits of earth, 60400 l in height, in the angles
of the valley throughout its whole distance, a feature observable nowhere
else. In consequence of the peculiar configuration of the surrounding
mountains, including the Jebel Musa group and the Serbél, every fall of
rain, snow, and dew in the whole neighbourhood of this extensive region,
found its way through different channels into this basin; and, after the
barrier at Hererdt had been removed, the brook still remained as a relic
of the ancient lake. The sudden appearance of this streamlet in the rocky
valley, and its as sudden disappearance in the rock at El-Hesweh, must
have been a constant source of wonder to the vivid imagination of the
inhabitants of the desert, and it therefore seems natural that the phenomenon should have been ascribed to the miraculous rod of Noses,

Two routes lead from El-Buwéb to the Sinai monastery. The
easier, through the Wadi esh-Shékh (11 hrs. to the monastery),
is more suitable for the return-journey via Sarbfit el-lihadem
(p. 522); the other, rougher (101/2 hrs. to the monastery), but more
picturesque, leads through the wadi Selaf and across the interesting Nakb el-Héwi. We select the second of these routes.

The wan esh-Shékh, which frequently expands into picturesque basins, soon diverges to the NE. (see p. 520), and we reach
(1/4 hr.) the entrance to the Wadi MIM, a monotonous and winding valley through which our route runs for nearly Ghours. On the
right opens the Wadi er-Rimm (p. 497) ascending to Mt. Serbal,
and on the same side the Wadi Umm T & khu, containing several
curious stone-huts in the form of beehives, called'nawfimis', to
which the absurd tradition attaches, that the Israelites sought refuge in them from tormenting flies. In less than 2 hrs. We reach
the Wtali'Ejja11si, through which the road from To (p. 518) on
the Red Sea joins our route from the S.W. Mt. Serbal now at length
becomes visible in all its majesty, and remains in sight behind us
for 1/2 hour. We next pass the dei AM sum to the left, at the
entrance of which the prophet Mohammed, when he was marching
against Syria (Shim) with his uncle ram), is said to have rested.
Several other small wadis are passed on the right and left. At
the upper end of the valley at the foot of the Nakb el-Hawi Pass,
there is a good camping-place, commanding a fine distant view of
Mt. Serbal. At this point begins the ascent of the Nalrb el-Iftawi
19efile (4930 ft.), occupying 21/2 hrs., though an active walker
might reach the top in one hour. The camels progress very slowly
in this narrow, steep, rocky pass, so that the traveller will find it
pleasanter to dismount, and walk up the hill. The granite rocks
on each side, weathered into singularly fantastic forms, are upwards of 800 ft. in height; the gorge is strewn with stones of all
sizes; the camel-path skirts the hard and uneven cliffs which










