Administration. GEOGRAPHICAL NOTICE. 35

el-Kism. Subordinate to the nitr..ir again is the Shikh ct-b'eted,
or chief magistrate or mayor of the village, usually known simply as
shé'kh (plur. shil'tkh ],

In the larger towns there is a magistrate of this kind in each
quarter Cat Cairo fifty--three), over whom are placed prefects oflarger
sections (shékh ct-tumn). Over the whole of these presides the Mudir, and lastly over the latter in some cases 3. 11011111151 with very
extensive powers. Other provinces again are governed by specially
appointed inspectors, who occupy the highest rank in their respective
jurisdictions.

If the administrative reforms proposed by England actually come
into effect, the duties of the provincial governors will be very materially circumscribed. The police administration has been made
a separate department, and Egypt has been divided into the three
police districts of Cairo. Alexandria, and Upper Egypt, each under
an inspector general. The administration of justice is to be committed entirely to the native courts, while a special minister is to
have the charge of canal-making and other public works. In order,
however, to afford some idea of the importance of the Mudir in the
public life of the provinces, we give here a short account of the
functions he has hitherto had to perform.

The Dorms or run) IuniR were very multifarious He presided over
the administration, the finances, and the police of his province. He was
required to watch over the public safety, to super-intend public works,
to regulate all sanitary matters, to register all transfers of property,
contracts of sale, title-deeds, and mortgages, to pronounce judgment in
all law-suits which do not fall exclusively within the jurisdiction of the
spiritual court (the llehkemeh), and lastly to collect the taxes. The
four chief taxes are as follows. (1) Land-tax (kharzig), levied from the
Ardqli el-le'rfyeh (see below, the Ab'fuliyeh pay ten per cent only, while
the dfhiytik is entirely exempt). It is levied monthly by the sarraf. A
feddan of the best land in Lower Egypt pays about 255. per annum nut
medium and inferior land is taxed at a lower rate. A valuation.is made
annually, and the different estates and farms registered under one of
these three classes. (2 ]. Income--lax, paid by merchants, bazaar-keepers,
and artizans [ warm i, i. e. the Turkish wergi, fir, and varying
from l to 20 per cent. (3). Market lax (1111111), levied according to a certain
tariff 011 all produce brought to the markets, at a rate varying from 2 to
9 per cent. This tax is now confined to the four largest towns. (h), Palm.
tax, levied at the rate of 20 piastres per tree.

Distribution of land. Down to 1879 the Khedive and his family possessed one million and a half fcddans of landed property, or about one «
fourth of cultivable Egypt; valued at forty million pounds sterling,
and practically forming his private property. This land is officially
called Shim ]: (or properly tshiftlik, the Turkish for'estate', or'farm).
Part of these vast estates came into the hands of the reigning monarch
by the confiscation of the fiefs (1'de (1) held by the Mamelukes, who were
exterminated by Mohammad'Ali on 11th March 1811, and by the appropriation of all family foundations (1131mm, estates belonging to mosques
(way), and land which in consequence of the depopulation caused by the
Mamelnke regime had ceased to have any owner. The great bulk of the
crown estates was, however amassed during the 15 years rule of Khedive
Isma'il, who was not over-scrupulous as to the methods he employed in
doing so. Shortly before his abdication he was forced to resign almost
the entire estates of himself and his family to the board of domains appointed by the international financial commission.

3 > 1:



