502 Route 10. NAKB EL-HSWI. From Sues

bound the gorge. Lepsius has proved that the laborious task of
making this path was first undertaken by the Christian monks.
The torrents in this rocky gorge in winter are often so violent as
to carry everything before them. In 1867 they were swelled to such
a height, that they washed away a camp of the Beduins in the Wadi
Serif, causing a loss of 40 lives and of numerous cattle, in the
midst of the arid desert. The last part of the ascent is less precipitous, and we now observe a few traces of vegetation. The rocks
here also bear some Sinaitic inscriptions. - At the upper end
of the defile the barren cliffs of the Sinai group become visible,
and a view is at length obtained of the Ram plain, surrounded
by lofty mountains, and not unlike a huge amphitheatre. At the
end of the valley rises the bold and conspicuous rock, known as
the Rois ee.Saf.soff (p. 513), which the members of the last Sinai
expedition, following Dr. Robinson, believe to be the true scene
of the promulgation of the law. The plain of Er-Raha, which we
reach by at first descending a little, and afterwards ascending, the
path improving as we advance, is supposed by the same travellers
and explorers to have been the camping-place of the Israelites,
A dark-green spot, in which antimony is probably to be found,
is called Kohli after that mineral. After having crossed another
slight eminence, we reach the sand of the plain. A block of rock
lying here (perhaps an old boundary stone), bearing peculiar
marks, is the subject of an Arabian tradition, to the effect that
the Gindi tribe, having been unjustly treated by the monks
of the monastery of St. Catharine, who favoured the Jeheliyeh
tp. 503), struck their lances into this block in token of confirmation
of the oath of their Sheikh, that the monks should never pass this
stone. About 1% hr. after leaving the summit of the Nakb elnawi, we pass, on the left, the month of the Wfidi esh-Shékh
(7p. 5'20), which is commanded by the Jebct ed-Dér (p. 520) on
the E. The gorge, called the Wadi Shu'aib
(valley of Jethro), ascending gradually, and closed by the hill of
Mundja, opens before us. To the left of its entrance rises the hill
of Harlin, on the summit of which Aaron (Harlin) is said to have
set up the golden calf. In the vicinity are the remains of stone
huts, built by'Almis Pasha in 1853 and 1854 for the workmen
and soldiers who attended him. We enter the Shu'aib valley, flanked by enormous cliffs of reddish-brown granite, towering to a
dizzy height. In 1/2 hr. more we reach the terraces of the green
garden of the monastery which lies to the right of the path, and
the caravan stops in front of the monastery.

Accommodation. Formerly, when the monks were frequently attacked
by the Beduins of the peninsula, visitors were drawn up into the monastery through an opening over the gate, which was always carefully
closed, by means of a rope with a wooden cross attached to the end.
At the present day the traveller presents theletter of introduction which

he has obtained through his Consulate at Cairo. and is admitted by a
aide-door. The Beduins and camels remain outside. The monastery






