to Sinai. MONASTERY OF SINAI. TO. Route. 503

contains visitors' rooms. beds. sofas, and a kitchen. If the dragoman has
undertaken to provide for the party throughout the whole journey, he
must make his own bargain with the monks, to whom the traveller may
afterwards present a gift on his own account. Those who have to pay
their own expenses, are generally charged at least 5 in is day each for
lodging alone. It is healthier during the cold nights in these mountains
in spring, as well as more interesting, to lodge in the monastery; but the
traveller will find it more independent and less expensive to camp in some
suitable spot in the lower Wiidi Shuraih, and thence to visit the monastery, the various heights of the Sinai group, and the'Sacred Places".
The Jebeliyeh, as the servants of the monks are called, are excellent
guides, and will accompany the traveller for a trifling fee. Sportsmen who
wish to shoot the mountain-goat, which abounds here, may apply to the intendant of the monastery, who will provide them with a suitable guide.

.Monastery of St. Catharine on Mt. Sinai.

The only mention of Mt. Sinai in the Old Testament, after the great
event of the promulgation of the law, is in connection with the flight of
Elijah, who sought refuge here after having slain the priests of Baal on the
brook Kishon (L Kings, xviii. ur, xix. b). At an early part of the Christian
period a number of anchorites settled here amid the springs of these rocky
mountains, and pronounced the Jebel miss to he the Mountain of the Lord.
As early as the Ith cum they were terribly persecuted, and stories are told
in connection with the Dér el-Arba'in (monastery of the forty) in the wadi
Leja (p. 513) of the cruel attack which cost 33 or 40 Cenobites their lives
(p, two, While Mt. Sect) afforded a better situation the monastic settlements, Mt, Sin' attracted numerous anchorites and hermits, owing to its
seclusion and greater safety, especially after Justinian, according to the
statement of Procopius, his private secretary, and that of Eutychius (8arid
ihn el-Brrtrik, 9th cent), had erected the church of the Virgin already
mentioned and a castle, in A.D. 530, for the protection of the monks and
the neighbouring region against the attacks of the Saracens. The emperor is said to have been so dissatisfied with the site chosen by the
architect, that he caused him to be beheaded. He justly objected that
the fortress was commanded by the slope of the valley rising immediately above it. The desire attributed to Justinian. that the slope should
have been removed, and the execution of the architect in consequence of
his answer -'if we spent the whole treasures of Rome, Egypt, and Syria, we could not level the mountain" me by no means characteristic of
so sagacious an emperor. The monastery might certainly have easily
been destroyed by rocks rolled down from the E. slope of the valley.
Justinian and his wife Theodora are also said to have founded the Church
of the Transfiguration (p. boo). The monastery was also greatly benefited by a gift from Justinian of a hundred Roman, and ahundred Egyptian slaves, with their wives and children. From these retainers are
descended the Jebeltyeh, who still render service to the monks, but are
despised by the Bednins and stigmatised as'Nazarenes' and'fellfihin'.
Although originally Christians, and living under the supervision of their
monkish masters, they could not be prevented from embracing El-Islam,
which they all now profess. In the reign of the Khalif'Abd el-Melik ibn
Merwan there seem to have been many compulsory conversions to lilohanimedanism which cost many lives; but the shrewd monks contrived
to ward off their Mohammedan persecutors, by pretending that they had
accorded a hospitable reception to the prophet on one of his journeys, that
one of the monks of Sinai had predicted his future career, and that
the prophet had given them a letter promising them the protection of his
followers. The document is said to have been written by'Ali, and to
have been impressed with the blackened sign manual of the prophet,
who could not himselfwrite. Sultan Selim is reported to have carried the
document to Constantinople, after the conquest of Egypt, for the purpose
of enriching his collection of relics, and to have sent the monks, in its










