504 Route JO. MONASTERY OF SINAI. From Sue:

stead, a copy authenticated by his own seal; this copy is also said to have
been lost, but another copy of very doubtful genuineness is now preserved
in the monastery of the order at Cairo. The safety of the monks is now
better secured by a letter of protection accorded to them by each new sultan.
The mosque, which stands within the walls of the monastery, is said to
have been built in order to induce Sultan Selim (( 1. AD. 1520) to abstain
from his purpose of destroying the monastery, within the walls of which
a young Greek priest, to whom he was attached, had died. The mosque,
however, has been proved to have existed at least a century and ahalfcarlier than the reign of Selim, having doubt less been built out of consideration for the Muslims. whom it was absolutely necessary to conciliate. So far
was this policy carried, that when King Baldwin 1. of Jerusalem wished to
visit Mt. Sinai during the Crusades, at the beginning of the 12th cent,
the monks entreated him to give up his intention, as such a visit might
excite the suspicion of the Muslim rulers, and prove detrimental to the
monastery. Several Beduin tribes of the peninsula were constituted the
well-paid'Ghafirs', or guardians of the monastery, one of their duties
being to escort the caravans of pilgrims, a great number of whom visited the sacred places in the middle ages. The Egyptian government also,
even during the Mameluke period, entered into friendly relations with
the monks, partly in consequence of the pretended letter of the prophet
which they possessed, partly for the sake of ensuring the safety of the
Mecca pilgrims, whose mute passed the territory of the monks, and partly
from its desire to protect those places which were regarded as sacred by
Christians and Muslims alike. Down to the reign of Mohammed rAli,
whose patronage they enjoyed, the monks were entitled to part of the
custom-house dues levied at Cairo, and that city had to supply them with
the materials for their gowns; and they still enjoy the privilege of conveying their property to or from Cairo free of duty.'Abhas Pasha visited Mt. Sinai in 18531 and formed the extravagant plan of building himself a villa on a rock of Mt. Horeb (p. 510), but he was assassinated in
1854 before his design could he carried out. Although a fanatical Muslim, he did not sample to pray in the church of the Transfiguration at the
'Place of the Burning Bush'. The safety of the monks is now perfectly
insured, partly owing to the favour shown to the Christians by the Egyptian government, and partly to the protection of Russia. - Notwithstanding the ample revenues of the monastery, the number of the monks
has greatly diminished. In the lith cent. it is said to have contained
3400 inmates, together with a prelate and an archbishop, but the number
is now reduced to 20-30 only, who are chiefly natives of the Greek islands, where the monastery possesses estates, particularly in Drew and
Cyprus. - The most famous offshoot of the monastery of the wan
Shu'aib is that of the Sinaites at Cairo, but the monks also maintain
constant communication with the other churches of their order, which
are scattered over a great part of the East. Thus we find fraternities in
Roumania, Servia, Turkey (Constantinople), the Greek Archipelago, in
Greece itself, and even in India, closely connected with the monastery
of Mt. Sinai. The order belongs to the orthodox Greek church, which
regards Sinai as no less sacred than Jerusalem.

The Monastic little is very strict. The monks are prohibited from
partaking of meat or wine, and even oil is forbidden during the long
taste; but they are permitted to eat fish, and to drink an excellent liqueur which they prepare from dates ('Araki). They assemble for prayer
twice during the day, and twice during the night. Women were formerly
rigorously excluded, and even eats and hens, as belonging to the same
obnoxious sex. Female pilgrims, however, and enterprising lady tourists,
are now lodged without difficulty in the rooms set apart for visitors.
The monastery is presided over by an archbishop, who is elected by the
monks here and their brethren in Cairo; the election, however, requires
confirmation by the patriarch of Jerusalem. who recently exercised his right
of veto in a very emphatic manner. Between 1750 and 1872 no archbishop
resided on Mt. Sinai, as, in accordance with ancient treaties, large sums
had to be paid and gifts presented to the Beduins upon the installation








