to smut MONASTERY OF SINAI. 10. Route. 505

of every new prelate. After a lapse of 112 years a new archbishop (Kant:
mam) was installed in the monastery in 1872, but his election was attended with great difficulties. If the quaint old writer Schiltberger of
Munich (1394-1427) could have foreseen these modern events, he would
hardly have recorded the following miracle: -'A great wonder takes
place in the monastery, where there are many monks, who have as many
lamps, which are always burning. And when a monk is about to die
his lamp begins to wane, and when it goes out, he dies. And when th,
Abbot dies, the monk, who sings his praise after the mass, finds on the
altar a letter on which is written the name of the man who is to he
Abbot. And the lamp of the dead Abbot thereupon lights itself.' The
absent archbishop is represented by a prior or wekil, but the estate he
the monastery are actually managed by an intendant. Most of the monksf
who are quite uneducated, practise some handicraft; and they are most,
successful in the distilling of brandy, and in gardening. Among them
are also a tailor and a shoemaker who charge exorbitantly for their
primitive workmanship The bread of coarse flour is also baked on the
premises. Many of the monks spend a few years only on Mt. Sinai, after
which they return home as'martyrs'. The monastery is also considered
as a kind of penal establishment. The healthy mountain air enjoyed by
the inmates of the monastery of St. Catharine has always contributed greatly to their longevity, but most of them suffer from rheumatism.

The Monastery of Sinai, an irregular pile of buildings, lies
5014ft. above the sea-level, on the N E, granite slopes of the Jebel
Mrisa or Mount Sinai, in the Wadi Shu'aib or valley of Jethro.
Into the outer wall, facing the garden, are built two fragments of
marble bearing inscriptions, one in Greek, and one in Arabic (published by Lepsius). They both date from the 12th or 13th century,
and are to the same effect. Thelonger, in Arabic, runs as follows :-'The monastery of Mt. (Tor) Sinai, and the church of the Mountain
of the Conversation, was built by Justianus (i. e. Justinianus), the
pious king of the Greek confession, dependent on the aid of God,
and waiting for the promise of his Lord, to remind himself and his
wife Theodora of the flight of time, in order that God might inherit the earth and everyone thereon, for he is the best of heirs.
And his building was ended after thirty years of his reign; and he
appointed over it a superintendent named Dhulas. And this
happened in the year 6021 after Adam, which corresponds with
the year 527 of the year of the Lord Christ'. It appears from the
style of the characters, that the inscriptions date from the 12th or
13th cent, and it has already been mentioned, that the date of the
foundation of the monastery has been confounded with that of the
castle built by Justinian. The same wall contain: another large
stone, which, to judge from its ornamentation, probably bears a
third inscription on one of its sides. The monastery was often
destroyed and rebuilt, and consequently exhibits great incongruity
of form; we therefore find cubes and round arches, pointed and flat
roofs, and a church and mosque in close contact with each other.
The whole building presents the appearance of a fortress externally, but the bold and menacing defences consist of the walls of
houses, and massive walls of stones connecting the different buildings, which take the place of a regular rampart. The apartments



