506 Route 10. MONASTERY OF SINAI. From Sun.

occupied by the monks, pilgrims, and travellers, are situated on
the first floor of the houses, which are only one room in depth, their
doors being connected by a long, wooden gallery. The whitewashed walls bear numerous Greek inscriptions, some of which
were written by a monk of Athos, named Cyril, who was formerly
librarian here. The ditterent buildings are separated by small
courts; one oi these contains a well, and a small group of apricot
trees enclosed by stakes. The low buildings are commanded by a
lofty cypress. From the embrasures in the walls and ramparts a
few small cannons still frown on the now peaceful'Saracens'. In
the midst of the buildings is situated the church (see below), with
its handsome tower, adjoining which is the ill-preserved mosque.
The wells yield excellent water, particularly one in a shed at the
back of the church, which the monks point out as the one at which
Moses watered the flocks of Jethro's daughters.

The Church of the Transfiguration is an early Christian basilica.
The exterior is uninteresting. In the centre of the W. side, which
forms a kind of facade, a large cross, with a window in the centre,
takes the place of the usual rose-window; and on each side of it
is a palm-tree engraved on the stone. - The church is entered by
a porch, and a flight of steps descending beyond it, both of which
have been restored. In the middle of each of the topmost steps
is aletter of the name of St. James (y-A-K-Q-B-O-S). - We first
enter a vestibule (narthex) with a Byzantine window, containing
a large, modern basin for holy water with small silver eagles.
The framework of the door leading into the nave is richly decorated
and the panels are embellished with old pictures in enamel, of
small size. The basilica, which we next enter, notwithstanding
the lowness of its aisles, and the superabundant decoration peculiar
to Greek churches, is not devoid of effect. Each of the lofty walls
hearing the entablature of the nave rests on thick columns of
granite, covered with stucco and painted green, the capitals of
which are adorned with boldly executed foliage. The ceiling has
been recently re-painted, and divided into bright coloured sections containing indifferent medallion figures of John the Baptist,
the Virgin and Child, and the Saviour.

The Aisles are lighted by five Byzantine windows on each side,
and are covered by a sloping roof. A coloured Marble Pavement in
the nave now replaces one of admirable mosaic which was destroyed by Arabian treasure-seekers. Adjoining the third column
on the left side of the nave is a marble Pulpit adorned with pleasing miniatures, which was presented to the church in 1787. Near
the fourth column on the right is the Episcopal Throne, dating from
the last century, and interesting on account of a representation of
the monastery at that period, painted by an Armenian artist, and
held by figures of Moses and St. Catherine The inscription repeats the date 527 which is erroneously stated by the monks as






