to Sinai. MONASTERY OF SINAI. 10. Route. 507

that of the foundation of the monastery by Justinian (p. 503).
Between each pair of columns are rudely--carved choir-stalls. From
the ceiling are suspended three candelabra, which are lit at the eveniug service and made to swing from side to side; also a hundred lamps
of every shape and size, some of which are adorned with ostriches'
eggs, and so low, that they may be reached with the hand. The raised
Tribune projects into the nave far beyond the choir. A wooden
Screen C'septum'), coloured blue, yellow, and red, and overladen
with carving, with a broad gate flanked with gilded columns and
rich ornamentation, separates the choir from the have and aisles.
The large crucifix, reaching to the ceiling, bears the figure of the
Saviour, painted in bright colours. The candelabra, placed in
front of the screen and covered with red velvet, stand on very ancient bronze lions of curious workmanship, perhaps executed before the Christian era. - The beautiful rounded *Apse is adorned
with Mosaics of great value, executed by European artists as
early as the 7th or 8th cent. The most important of these, which,
like the others, is well preserved, is the *Tmnsfigumtion of
Christ, in memory of which the church was originally consecrated. In the centre of the mosaic the youthful and somewhat commonplace figure of the Saviour soars towards heaven. Elijah,
the prophet of Mt. Sinai, is pointing to the Messiah; St. John
kneels at the feet of his master; Moses points to the latter as
the fulfiller of his law, and St. Peter lies on the ground, while
St. James is kneeling. Each figure is accompanied by the name
of the person it represents. A kind of frame is formed to this
picture by a series of busts of prophets, apostles, and saints in
mosaic, admirably executed:
l, John the deacon; 2. Luke; 3. Simon; k, James; 5. Mark; 6. Bartholomew; 7. Andrew; 8 Paul; 9. Philip; 10. Thomas; 11. Matthew;
12. Thaddeus; 13. Matthias; lk.'0 gym; iroissyt, the'Holy Superior'
of the monastery; 1:). Dame }; 16. Jeremiah; 1 .Mulachi; 18. Haggai; 19.
Habakkuk; 20. Joe ]; 21. Amos; 22. David; 23. Hosea; 24. Micah; 25.
Obadiah; 26. Nahum; 27. Zephaniah; 28. Zachariah; 20. Isaiah; 30.
Ezekiel.

Above the apse, on the right, Moses kneels before the burning

bush; on the left, he stands before Mt. Sinai, with the tables of the
law in his hand. Between these scenes and the arch of the apse
hover two angels adjoining two medallion figures (perhaps Moses
and St. Catharine), which the monks point out as portraits of
Justinian and Theodora, although they do not in the least resemble
other portraits of the emperor and his wife. Under the scene of
the Transfiguration is an inscription CE'J dwinarr Harpb; xzi Tiai
7.511'Art'oo nveéparo; *5/70va r6 miw é'pyov Torco fmép Gwrnpia;
wa xaprocpop'qodwow £71 Aowivou 105 éotoiri'rou fipeGBUTépou'mi
fiyouyévoo ] to the effect that the mosaic was executed under
Longinus, the Presbyter and Superior of the monastery, for the
salvation of the souls of those who had contributed towards the cost
of the work.



