508 Route 10. MONASTERY 0F SINAI. F-rom Suez

Among the sacred utensils in the choir are a finely executed
Ciborium, or stand for the communion chalice, and a short marble
sarcophagus said to contain the head and one hand ofSL Catharine,
who is specially revered by the Creek orthodox church. Here, too,
is shown a valuable, but unpleasing reliquary, presented by Russian Christians. The head of St. Catharine is represented on a
silver pillow. her face and hands being enamelled. Another similar
reliquary, bearing a figure of the saint in gilded silver, was presented by the Empress Catharine of Russia

The Chapel of the Burning Bush, at the back of the apse,
marking the spot where God is said to have appeared to Moses, is
probably the oldest part of the structure. Visitors must remove
their shoes before entering. The walls are covered with slabs of
porcelain. The spot where the bush is said to have stood is
indicated by a plate of chased silver; over it is placed a kind of
altar, within Which are suspended three burning lamps. At the
back of this sanctuary is a small niche adorned with figures, in a
line with the apse, the semicircular wall of which encloses the
whole E. end of the building. A ray of the sun is said to enter
this sanctuary once only in the course of the year, gaining admission
through a cleft of the rock on the E. side of the valley. From a
cross erected there the hill has been named the Jebel es--Salib.

The Chapels surrounding the nave contain no objects of interest.
Each is dedicated to an evangelist, saint, or martyr (SS. Anna, the
holy martyrs of Sinai, James, Constantia and Helena, Demetrius
and Sergius). Adjoining the right aisle of the basilica are the
chapels of SS. Simon Stylites, Cosmas, and Damianus; adjoining
the left aisle are those of SS. Anna, Marina, and Antipas. The
chapel for the Latins, near the visitors' rooms, is now disused, as
the Roman Catholics no longer make pilgrimages to this monastery.

The Mosque, a building of simple construction, is badly preserved. The stone wall of an out-building near the mosque and an
arch between the mosque and the church still hear several coats of
arms in the early mediaeval style, perhaps those of Crusaders. Opposite is the chapel of the Panagia, which contains several portraits of bishops and archbishops of Sinai and a large model of a
projected reconstruction of the monastery. It is now, however, very
problematical whether this scheme of reconstruction will ever be
carried out, since the property of the convent in Russia and Walachia has been secularised.

The Library of the monastery, which is sadly cramped for want
of room, is more valuable than many better arranged and outwardly
more imposing collections in Europe. Among its treasures are a
great many Greek and Arabic MSS., besides others in Syrian,
(Ethiopian, Persian, Armenian, Slavonic, and Russian. The most
valuable MSS., however, are kept stored away in cases, and the
only ones exhibited to visitors are a few'show' pieces in the






