to Sinai. MONASTERY OF SINAI. JO. Route. 509

treasury and a selection of comparatively uninteresting modern
MSS. in a room adjoining the archbishop's house. Implicit belief
should not be vouchsafed to all that the monks have to say about
the MSS. in the treasury. Thus, some loose pages of a Greek
Bible which they show do not belong, as they assert, to the Codex
Sinaiticus. The so-called Evangelium Theodosiunum, a collection of
passages from the New Testament, is described without any ground
whatever as a gift of the Plum. Theodosius (766 An), and in
all likelihood does not date farther back than 1000 AD. It is written on white parchment, both sides of each sheet having two columns
in golden characters. A kind of frontispiece is formed by a series
of elaborate miniatures of Jesus, Mary, the four Evangelists, and
St. Peter. The Psalteriunum Cassianum, containing the whole
of the Psalms written in microscopical characters on six leaves, was
not executed by a nun of the 9th cent., named Cassia, but is a
piece of laborious trifling dating from the period of the Renaissance .--In the'Small Library' is a copy of the famous Codex
Sinaiticus, discovered by Prof. Tischendorf, printed most carefully
from the original, and presented by the Emperor of Russia. Several leaves of the precious MS. are preserved at the university of
Leipsic, under the name of the'Codex Friderico-Augustanus', but
the greater part of it is at St. Petersburg, having been purchased
from the monastery by Alexander 11. for a large sum. The codex
contains a complete copy of the New Testament, most of the books
of the Old Testament, a part of the'Shepherd of Hermas', and the
'Epistle of St. Barnabas'. The great value of the Codex Sinaiticus
is due to its completeness, the care with which it is written, the
consistency of the peculiarities of its text, and, above all, its great
antiquity. It is pretty well ascertained to date from about 400 A.D.,
and is surpassed by the celebrated Codex Vaticanus alone in age
and in importance in determining the Biblical text.

On the N. side of the monastery is the Burial Place of the
monks, reached by several dark passages, and consisting of a strongly
vaulted crypt. The remains of the bishops are preserved in coffins,
and those of the priests in a separate part of the vault, while the
bones and skulls of the monks are merely piled up together. The
skeletons of several highly revered hermits are suspended from the
wall. At the gate of the priests' vault is placed the skeleton of
St. Stephanos Cd. 580), wearing a skull-cap of violet velvet. Not
far from this vault is a well, and beyond it is the rarely used burialground for pilgrims who have died here.

A flight of steps descends from this court to the *Gurdcn, the
trees of which blossom most luxuriantly in March and April,
presenting a grateful sight in the midst of this rocky wilderness.
It is laid out in the form of terraces, and contains peach--trees,
orange-trees, vines, etc., overshadowed by some lofty cypresses.



