36 GEOGRAPHICAL NOTICE. Population.

Another kind of landed property is called Ab'zldl'yeh, by which is
meant the uncultivated land presented by the Khedive to suitable persons with full right of property on condition of its being reclaimed or
cultivated. Estates of this kind pay no taxes for the first three years, after
which to per cent on the value of the produce is levied ('ushr). The rest of
the land is officially known as Etht-dgh' "h, i.e. government estates.
Nearly the whole of the soil of Egypt is thus in the hands of government.
The fellahin or peasants are merely tenants for life, or so long as they continue to pay their ground-rent (khm'dg). According to the Koran, an estate
on the death of the life-tenant reverts to the bit et-mut, or government
treasury, as the common property of all Muslims; but a humane law of
1857 provides that it may be claimed by the next of kin of both sexes
on payment of 21 Pmiu Washes per feddan for registration of the title.
The trees planted by the life-tenant, and the buildings and irrigating
apparatus erected by him, are his property, and pass to his heirs. The
right of occupation, or usufruct, of these lands may also be sold, let, or
mortgaged; but the contract must he ratified by government in each easel
and where mortgaged lands are not redeemed within fifteen years, they
continue in possession of the mortgagee and become his property. A
piece of land may at any time be taken possession of by government for
public purposes (railways canals, embankments), in which case the occupant receives another piece of land elsewhere as compensation.

The ground-tax (Mm-rig) is in some cases as high as 20 per cent.
Instead of a certain tax being imposed on each village as formerly, the
tax payable by each estate is now fixed by the illudiriyeh or chief
authorities of the province. To facilitate the collection of taxes, all
landed estates are formed into groups, generally consisting of properties
taxed at the same rate, and known in Lower Egypt as [ 16¢ ], and in Upper
Egypt as lcabcilrh.

In certain poor districts where there was a difficulty in collecting
the taxes in the reign of Mohammed'Ali, payment was undertaken by
a number of capitalists, who Were empowered to recover them from the
fellahin. This right, however, was not transferable, and it could be
resumed by the government at any time. Groups of estates where this
system still prevails are called ruhdeh.

Since 1322 several attempts have been made at a comprehensive scheme
of land valuation, but none has been carried out for more than a few
limited districts. 1111879, however, a land valuation office was established
at Cairo in connection with the projected reforms in the land-tax.

Population. The population of Egypt has been ascertained to
have been greater in ancient than in modern times; for, disregarding the exaggerated calculation of Theocritus, based on a mere assumption, it appears to have numbered at least 71/2 million souls in
the time of Josephus and the Emperor Nero. This number is quite
reasonable.in itself, as it is estimated that the country could support 8-9 million inhabitants.

According to the enumeration made by Amiei Boy in 1882 the
present population of Egypt proper is 6,81 1,449, or about 000 per
square mile, and is therefore denser than that of most European
states. The thickest population is found in the province of Esnch,
the thinnest in the Faynm and in Behéreh. The sexes occur in almost equal proportions. The number of houses enumerated in the
same census is 1,090,000, distributed among 12,876 towns, villages, and hamlets. The population of the provinces beyond the
limits of Egypt proper, on the other hand, has never been ascertained by any regular census, and can therefore only be estimated

in a conjecture ] way. The densest population is that of the pro





