510 Route 10. JEBEL Mesa. From Sues

The Jehel Mdsa and Bis eytiaftsid.

The ascent of the Jehel Mfisa occupies 3 hrs., and presents no difficulty.
The start should be made about 5 a. m. or earlier. Five different paths
lead to the top. but the two following are almost exclusively used. The
more interesting, but also more fatiguing. ascends the old pilgrimage-steps
(see below). while the other begins in the midi Shu'eih, and ascends
the Jebel N1" 1sa by a circuitous route. This last was to have been made
practicable for the carriage of'Abbas Pasha, who intended building himself
a villa on Mt. Sinai; but he was assassinated before the completion of
the work (13. 5041. Those who wish to ascend the Jebel Mdsa and Itis
e f t separately may return by the second of these routes; in this
case they may remain long enough on the Jebel Mdsa to enjoy the
magnificent spectacle of a sunset. By starting immediately alter the
disappearance of the sun, and walking rapidly, the traveller will have
time and light enough to descend to the cypress plain (Chapel of Elijah),
whence, with the aid of a guide, he may reach the monastery in an
hour without. difficulty, even in the dark, by following the road of'Abhi'is
Pasha. The pilgrims' steps should on no account he descended at night.
If necessary the night may be spent in the chapel of Elijah, in which
case the monks provide blankets.

One or two of the monks or Jebeliych [ Arabian servants of the
monastery) act as guides, carrying the necessary provisions, and rendering help in the ascent of the Ras es-Safsaf.

Those who ascend by the pilgrims' steps quit the monastery by
a small side-gate in its W. wall, and mount the bare granite of the
W. side of the Shu'aib valley, by a path which gradually becomes
steeper, but is unattended with danger. This path, which, like
many of the Oriental churches, is said to date from the time of the
Empress Helena, was probably constructed for the pilgrims in the
6th or 7th cent In 20 min. we reach a small spring which contains
the same quantity of water in winter and summer, and where, according to the Arabs, Moses once tended the sheep of Jethro, whom
they call Shu'aib. The monks, on the other hand, declare that it
issued from the rock in consequence of the prayers of the holy abbot
Sangarius, when the wells in the monastery dried up, and that it is
a cure for diseases of the eye. In 12 min more we come to a hut,
styled the Chapel of Mary, which is said to have been erected in
memory of a vision of the Virgin. The monks, according to the
story, were so terribly plagued with vermin, that they determined
to leave the monastery, and ascended the mountain in procession,
intending to quit the holy places. On the way, however, on the
site of this hut, the Virgin appeared to them, promised to deliver
them from their tormentors, and commanded them to return. They
obeyed, and found that all the vermin had disappeared. The traveller, however, even at a late period of the year, will have abundant
opportunity of observing that the foe has since returned .--Farther
up, the route crosses a small ravine, and then passes through two
rude gates. Monks are said formerly to have been stationed here for
the purpose of receiving from the pilgrims, who wished to take
the sacrament on the top of Mt. Sinai, a certificate that they had
attended the confessional in the monastery. At the Mst gate they
were handedarcceipt, which they gave up at the second. After a few






