to Sinah JEBEL MI'JSA. IO. Route. 511

minutes more we reach a pleasant green plain, called the'plain of
the Cypress', after a gigantic cypress which rises in the middle of
it. It is enclosed by hold and barren masses of rock, and reddishbrown and grey pinnacles of hard granite. Exactly to the S. of
the cypress rises the peak of the Jebel Mtsa; farther distant, to
the S.W., towers the lofty Jebel Katherin (p. 515), and to the
N. is the cliff of the Safszlf rising from the Raha plain. On a
plateau to the right of the path is a nursery of saplings by the side
of a fresh spring. We turn to the left of the cypress, and mount
the rugged blocks over which lies the route to the summit of the
Jebel Musa. On a small eminence, which unites the cypress plain
with the Jebel Musa, on the left of the path, is a simple white
stone building, containing two chapels dedicated to the prophets
Elijah and Elisha. The rudely-whitewashed interior contains a
hollow which the monks point out as the cavern in which Elijah
concealed himself after he had slain the priests of Baal on the brook
Kishon and had wandered 40 days and 40 nights in the wilderness.
Jehovah commanded him to ascend to the top of the mountain.
'And behold', we read in 1 Kings xix. H, at ser,'the Lord passed
by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and brake in pieces
the rocks before the Lord, but the Lord was not in the wind: and after
the wind an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake: 12.
And after the earthquake a fire, but the Lord was not in the fire: and
after the fire a still small voice. 13. And it was so. when Elijah heard
it, that he wrapped his face in his mantle, and went out. and stood in
the entering in of the cave. And, behold, there came a voice unto him,
and said, What doest then here, Elijah?'--We may remind the reader
how effectively Mendelssohn has set this sublime passage to music.
Beyond the Chapel of Elijah (6900 ft.) the route, or rather the
flight of steps (3000 in all, according to Pococke; 500 to the spring
of Sangarius, 1000 to the Chapel of Mary, 500 to the chapel of
Elijah, and 1000 to the top) becomes steeper, but by daylight
it is nowhere attended with danger. The granite is at first
speckled red, afterwards grey, green, and yellow. After an ascent
of 40 min. more, a natural hollow in the granite is pointed
out by the Arabs (to the left of the path) as a foot-print of the
camel which the prophet rode on his visit to Sinai, before his
call. According to another legend, the camel is said to have
stood with one foot in Damascus, another in Cairo, the third in
Mecca, and the fourth on Mt. Sinai, where the impression is still to
be seen, and thence to have been carried up into heaven with his
rider by the angel Gabriel. In% hr. more we reach the summit
of the Jebel Mdsa (7363 ft ], which rises 2350 ft. above the monastery. On the small plateau at the top, to the left, partly built
on ancient foundations, is situated a small and simple chapel,
which those of the guides who are monks enter with candles and
incense. On the right rises a small mosque in had preservation,
which the Arabs revere highly, and which, until recently, they
were only permitted to enter clothed in the ilmim, or single, plain






