to Sinai. PLAIN OF ER-RKHA. 10. Route. 513

This point commands an admirable survey of the broad Wadi, which
is believed by many to have been the camping--place of the Jews,
and is picturesquely enclosed by huge mountains of granite.

Opposite the cliffs of the fi.jafs.sitf, on the other side of the valley,
rise the red porphyry masses of the Jebel Fré'a, forming the nucleus
of a labyrinth of other mountains extending towards the N. The S. side
of it is called the Jebel 39214, to which belong the granite slopes commanding the dei er-thhn. at the traveller's feet and the Mr2di ed-Dér.
On the right (E.) rises the Jebel ed-De'r, and on the left (W.) are seen
numerous cliffs of granite, including the narrow Ughret el-Jfehd at the
entrance of the Wadi Leja, and the Jebel el-Glzabsheh. Far below us in
the valley, at the mouth of the ravine above which we stand, rises a
mound of sand with some ruined buildings and a few fruit-trees.

The Plain of Er-Rii.ha, Which we here survey, is, according to
the measurements of Prof. Palmer, two million sq. yds. in area.
There is no doubt that this valley is sufficiently extensive to have
been the camping-place of a large multitude like that of the
Israelites. If the Mt. Sinai of the monks, and not Mt. Serbil, is to
be regarded as the mountain where the commandments were given,
the Ris es.-Yfs.if, and not the Jebel Mtasa, must have been the peak
ascended by Moses. - If the Jebel Mfisa alone has been climbed,
and the traveller Wishes afterwards to visit the Rzis es-Safsaf, he
should ascend with a guide through a cleft immediately behind the
monastery, a little to the W. of the pilgrims' steps. There are steps
here also, but the route is not recommended to those who are inclined to dizziness, and it is much more fatiguing than the pilgrims'
route. The descent may be made by a cleft opening into the Babe
plain, but this route is also very rough, and cannot be recommended
for the ascent. Huge masses of rock have fallen into the cleft, and
the path often leads below them.

Those who desire to compare the form of the group amt. Sinai with
the account given of the'Mount of the Lord" in the Bible narrative should
keep in mind the following points suggested by Dr. Robinson, which may
also be considered in reference to Mt. Sinai. There must be the summit
of a mountain commanding the camp of the people, and a space contiguous to the mountain from which a large multitude could witness
the scene on the heights. The camping-place must be so situated with
regard to the mountain, that the people could approach the latter, and
stand upon its lower slopes; there must he the possibility of touching the
mountain, and of placing an enclosure round it to prevent the people
from ascending it, or touching its extremity.

Those who wish to return hence to the monastery, and not to
visit the Wadi Leja and the El--Arba'in monastery (p. 514 ] at
present, may descend by the ravine called the Sikkct Shu'aib. The
route is difficult, and reminds one of the question asked by Recha
of the Knight Templar in Lessing's'Nathan', whether'it was really
so much easier to ascend the mountain than to descend it'.

The Wadi al-Lajn and the El-Arba'in Monastery may be reached
even on horseback and without a guide. The whole excursion,
which presents no difficulties, takes 4 hrs.; numerous sacred spots
are pointed out on the route. Before entering the valley from the
Babe plain, the place is shown where the earth is supposed to have

Bunnies Egypt I. 2nd Ed. 33



