514 Route 10. LEJA-VALLEY. From Sues

swallowed up the company of Korah, although, according to the
Bible narrative, the scene of that event must have been at a considerable distance from Mt. Sinai. A hole in the rock is also pointed
out as the mould of the golden calf.

The Leja Valley, which flanks the W. side of the Jebe ] Mhsa,
owes its name to an Arabian tradition that Leja was a daughter of
Jethro, and a sister of Zipporah (Arabic Zaffiriya ]. At the entrance we first observe, on the right, the dilapidated hermitages
delea ated to SS. Earl, and Damianus and a disused chapel of
the welve Apostles. On the left is the ruinous monastery of
El-Bustr'r'n with a few plantations; farther on we come to a mass
of rock, called by the Arabs Hujer Maw, or'Stone of Moses",
and declared by the monks to be the Rock of floral), from which
the spring issued when struck by Moses. It is probably in accordance
with an ancient Jewish tradition, with which both St. Paul (1 Cor.
x. o, and the expounders of the Koran seem to have been familiar, that the monks assure us that this rock accompanied the Jews
throughout their wanderings in the desert, and then returned to its
old place. It is of reddish-brown granite, measures about 130
cubic yds. in content, and is about 12 ft. high. The S. side is
bisected somewhat obliquely by a band of porphyry about 16 in.
wide, from holes in which jets of water for each of the 12 tribes are
said to have flowed. Two of the holes, however, seem to have disappeared--Several Sinaitic inscriptions (p. 494) are to be seen here.

About 20 min. to the S. of this point is the unpretending Dé'r
el-Arbu'm, or Monastery of the Forty (i.e. martyrs), with an
extensive garden containing olive and other trees. In the upper
and rocky part of the site rises a spring with a grotto near it, which
is said once to have been occupied by St. Onofrius. The monastery was inhabited from the 16th down to the middle of the 17th
century. Two or three monks reside here occasionally to look after
the garden. The forty martyrs, from whom the monastery derives its
name, are said to have been monks who were slain by the Saracens,
but that event may as probably have taken place at the monastery
of Sikelyih on Mt. Serbal (p. 498).

The J ebel Katherin.

The ascent of the Jobs ] Rather-in is more difficult than that of the
Jebel Muse, and is hardly suitable for ladies. The start should be made
very early, or the previous night should be spent at the Arba'in monastery (see above). See map, p. 496

Route as far as the (/2 hrs.) Dér cL-Arba'in, see above. We then
follow a gorge to the SAW. Which soon contracts considerably, and
observe several Sinaitic inscriptions. After 11/4-11/21117. we reach
the Irir esh-Shanntir, or'partridges' well', which God is said to have
called forth for hehoof of the partridges which followed the corpse
of fit. Catharine (see below) when borne to Mt. Sinai by angels.
The route now inclines more to the W. and is very steep and






