to Sinai. JEBEL KATHERIN. 10. Route. 515

fatiguing until (11/2 hr.) we reach the ridge of rocks leading to the
top. The pilgrims have indicated the direction of the path by
heaping up small pyramids of stones on larger masses of rock. After
another hour of laborious climbing we reach the summit. The
Jebel Katherin has three peaks, the Jebel Katherin, the Jebel Eebir,
and the Jebel A612 Rumét, the first of which, according to the most
recent and careful English measurements, is the highest (8537 ft.),
being the loftiest mountain in the peninsula. The air is often
bitterly cold here, and snow lies in the rocky clefts till summer.
Half of the narrow plateau on the summit is occupied by a small
and rudely constructed chapel. The unevenness of the floor is
declared by the monks to be due to miraculous impression of the
body of St. Catharine (p. 508), which was found here 300, or according to others, 500 years after her execution, and to which attention
was attracted by the rays of light emanating from it. The view is
magnificent in fine weather, but towards the S.W. it is intercepted
by the Jebel Umm Shomar. Towards the S.E. lies the broad Wadi
Nash. The greater part of the Gulf of rAlgaba, the Arabian mountains, and even sometimes the Ras Mohammed (to the S.) are
visible. The Gulf of Suez is surveyed as far as the African coast,
on which rises the conspicuous Jebel Gharib (11.47.31) On the W.
coast of the peninsula lies the sterile plain of El-Kd'a, which
terminates near Ttu.To the N. tower Mt. Serbal and the Jebel
el-Benat, and farther distant lie the light-coloured sandy plain of
Er-Ramleh and the long range of the Et-Tih hills.

The Wadi Sebirrlyeh (afternoon excursion of 3 hrs.) is interesting from
its being regarded by Lahorde, Strauss, Tischendorf, Grau ], and others,
as the camping-place of the Jews. We ascend the Widi Shu'aib (p. 502),
cross the moderate height of the Jebel Mamba ('Mountain of the Conversation'), and enter the rocky dez' J, which is filled with heaps
of rocks and small stones, whence the rocky Jebel lmse presents a similar
appearance to that of the Ras er -Sa.fsaf trom the Er-Raha plain. We may
now return hy the dei es-Sadad, a. valley farther to the N.E., from the
Wadi Seba'iyeh into the Witdi esheshékh, and thence by a longer and
easier route through the Wadi eerer. On reaching the Widi eshvShekh
(p. 520) we keep to the left until the entrance of the Shn'aib valley and
the monastery comes in sight.

The Jebel Umm Shomal' ('mother of fennel', 8448 ft.) was long considered the highest mountain in the peninsula, but it was proved by the
measurements made by the English Expedition to be lower than the
Jebel Katheriu. We quit Mt. Sinai by the Wadi Seba'iyeh, enter the
broad Wadi Rahabeh, and pass the night at the Wddi Zétzm. Next morning
we first ascend the Jebel Aim Shejer rising 1180 ft. above the valley.
The Wadi Zeralciyeh, on the right, contains the scanty ruins of the old
monastery of Nap Antes. The majestic granite masses of the Jebel Umm
Shomar, with its huge pinnacles, somewhat resemble Mt. Serbal.



Route to Mt. Sinai vita Ttr.

From Suez to Tar, see p. 474. Tar is a place of some importance,
inhabited by Arabs, whose property, estimated at several hundred
thousand francs, is partly derived from the numerous shipwrecks
which take place near the island of Shadwan. The harbour is all
33 *



