51 6 Route 10. TUR. From Suez

mirably protected by coral reefs, which, however, are dangerous to
those unacquainted with their situation. Ttor affords the only good
anchorage in the Gulf of Suez, beside Suez itself, and has lately
been made the chief quarantine station of the Mecca pilgrims. As
the desert air here comes into contact with the fresh sea-breezes
and as there is abundance of drinking-water, the choice of the
government seems a very judicious one. On the return of the pilgrims, the desert to the S. of Tur presents a scene of great animation. Long rows of tents, arranged in six groups, afford ample accommodation for the largest concourse of pilgrims, while the throng
is swelled by traders from Suez and Cairo, who sell their inferior
wares at the most exorbitant prices. On the side next rm is the
camp of the soldiers who maintain the quarantine. To the N. of
the town the Jebel IJamrruim Sidna Mfisa ('Mountain of the baths
of our Lord Moses'; 370 it), a spur of the low range of coasthills, projects into the sea. At the foot of this hill lie sulphursprings of the temperature of 92-940, roofed over by'Abbas Pasha,
which irrigate plantations of palms, and are used by the natives
chiefly as a cure for rheumatism. The Kal'at e.t- Ttr, a castle
erected by Sultan Murad, is in a dilapidated condition. Most of
the palm-plantations belong to the monks of Mt. Sinai, and are
managed by their servants. Both the church and the secular building of the Greek convent at Tfir, which is said to have once been
occupied by a bishop and 1000 monks, are modern and uninteresting. As an inscription on the exterior of the wall of the church
records, they were built at the expense of the treasurer Gregorius.
A few monks are always stationed here, officiating partly as chaplains to a few Christian residents, and partly as caterers for the
Sinaitic monastery, which is supplied with provisions and fish
from Ttor. The caravans between the sea and the monastery are
conducted by the Beduins of the convent. Excellent fish, numerous

shells, and interesting marine animals abound here.

EXCURSIONS. The palm-garden of El-midi, about a mile to the N.W.
of the town, is noted for its salubrity. In the limestone slopes of the
latex yamrruim Mam are numerous dilapidated hermitages with Christian
crosses, and several Greek and Armenian inscriptions, dating from AD. 633.
To the N. rises the Jebel JIokatteb, which boasts of several Sinaitic inscriptions. None of these places present much attraction.

The Jebel 117111125, or'Bell Mountain, is b1/alursrlistrust from it
rlses amphitheMricrmy ehuut l N, tram the shore of the Red Sea, and is
the scene off'a. phenomenon which was first observed by Seetzen. On
ascending the sand which covers its slope we hear a peculiar sound,
resembling that otdistant bells, which gradually increases until it terminates
in a strange kind of rear.

'The noise at first resembled the faint tones of an A4o" olian harp when
first struck by the wind, and when the motion of the sand became more
rapid and violent, it rather assumed the sound produced by rubbing the
moistened finger on glass; but when the sand approached the foot of the
mountain, the reverberation was as loud as thunder, causing the rock
on which we set to tremble. () ur camels were so alarmed at the sound,
that the attendants could scarcely hold them in.'

The phenomenon is easily explained, in ascending over the sand,



