. to Sinai. WADI ES-SLEH. 10. Route. 517

when dry (in which case alone the sound is heard) the traveller loosens
it and causes it to fall into the clefts of the sandstone rock on which it
lies; a slight and gradually increasing sound is thus produced by this
miniature avalanche. The Arabs believe that these curious sounds proceed from a monastery buried under the sand. It had been accidentally
discovered by an Arab, who received hospitable entertainment from the
monks, and swore not to betray its existence; but when he afterwards
broke his oath, the monastery vanished.

FROM Tin TO THE MONASTERY OF ST. CATHARINB there are two
routes, one through the Wédi llebrau, the other through the l "tdi
es-Sléh (Isléh). The latter is the shorter and preferable route, as
the Wadi es-Sléh is one of the most romantic ravines in the whole
peninsula, while the route through the fodi Hebran is for some
distance the same as the shorter route from Suez to Sinai.

(1) THROUGH THE WADI les-SVS. The start should be made
at a very early hour, in order that the desert El-h'd'a may be crossed before the heat of the day. We ride due E. for G hrs. through
the gradually ascending desert in the direction of the huge Umm
Shumar (p. 515 ]. On reaching the base of the mountain, we descend very rapidly into a basin resembling the bed ofa lake, which
has been formed by the mountain torrent issuing from the Widi
es-Sléh. At the bottom of this basin we enter the narrow, rocky
defile of the wadi es-Sléh. After ascending this romantic gorge
with its turbulent break for half-an-hour, we reach a charming
resting-place where there is excellent water. The brook, which of
course varies greatly in volume at different seasons, sometimes disappears altogether in the upper parts of the valley, but there is
water enough everywhere to support the vegetation, which is very
luxuriant at places. Palms and numerous tamarisks thrive in the
lower part of the valley. The route is not always practicable for
riding, but if the rider dismounts, the camels contrive to thread
their way through the most difficult part of the ravine, while the
traveller will find it a relief to walk for a quarter-of-an-hour. A
little above the resting-place large masses of rock compel us again
to dismount for heir-en-hoary walk. About 2 hrs. from the entrance of the valley, and 280 ft. above that point, the route divides, and we turn to the left. At the next bifurcation, 10 min.
farther, our route leads to the right. We enter a rocky gorge which
soon contracts to a defile of 12 ft, only in width, then expands, and
again contracts. We pass a few palm-trees, many tamarisks, Solaneze, and thickets of reed. At the next bifurcation (1 hr.) we
turn to the right. We pass (20 min.) the precipitous bed of a
torrent on the right, and then a second descending from a curious
looking hill crowned with a huge mass of rock. The stony channel
of an old torrent here is deeply furrowed by that of another water-.
course which now crosses it. The valley becomes wilder and more
barren. We ascend the "Tuli Tarfu for 5-6 hrs. to a height of
about 1875 ft. We then enter the broad Wdcli Rahabeh, and traverse an open and undulating basin for 6 hrs. more, first towards






