518 Route 10. WADI mnufm meSucz

the NE. and then towards the N.W., and at length reach the Wtdi
SeM'iyeh, at the 8.10. base of the Jebel Mesa, recognisable by its
church and monastery. (Towards the N. the Willi Seba'iyeh is
connected with the Waidi esh-Shékh by the Wiz'dz' Sadad; comp.
p. 520). A saddle of moderate height separates the Wédi Seba'iyeh
from the Wadi ed--Dér ('valley of the monastery'). To the left, on
the precipitous Jebel Musa, which is quite perpendicular at the
top, we perceive the zigzags of the road constructed by'Abbés
Pasha (p. 510). We at length descend the narrow Widi ed-Dér
[ Shu'aib), and reach the lofty walls of the monastery of St.
Catharine (see p. 503).

(2) THROUGH THE WADI HEBBAN. Ist Day. For one hour we
ascend a gradual slope with a saline soil to the Umm Sa'ad, where
a spring of fresh water affords support to a few families. The
waterskins should be filled here, and a supply of dates purchased, as
the desert of Eb-rise, 6 hrs. in width, has now to be traversed. We
follow the road of Abbis Pasha, which, though sometimes covered
with sand on the low ground, is always sufficiently marked to indicate the direction to the Wtdi Hebran. For the first hour or two
we pass a number of dom-palms, but these also at length disappear.
A single seyal-tree stands about halfway, but otherwise we are surrounded by the hot desert, which is at first covered with fine sand,
afterwards with rubble, and at length with enormous blocks of stone
in the vicinity of the precipitous mountains. The wadi Hebran
is reached about sunset. At the point where it issues from the
mountains it is a deep and very narrow rocky ravine. A rocky recess close to the entrance affords quarters for the first night.

2nd Day. The route through the wadi llebran Winds considerably; the formation is granite, in which syenite predominates; it
contains thick veins of hornblende, slate, geenstone, and various
kinds of basalt. The volume of the brook varies according to the
season; its banks are bordered with vegetation The path, which
is comparatively good, and passes a number ofSinaitic inscriptions,
was to have been converted into a earriage-road by rAbbas Pasha,
but his plan was never carried out. After 13/4 hr. the valley divides, and the road of Abbis Pasha leads to the N. At a second
bifurcation (3/4 hr.) the valley expands, and in ihhr. more we
reach a clear and abundant spring, but disagreeably warm. The
tarfa bushes and palms here form an impenetrable thicket. Water
now disappears (10 min), the vegetation becomes scantier, and
we proceed to cross the precipitous Nulcb et-'Efjturi (3290 ft).
' quarters for the second night are near the W0di Seldf (p. 50il.
(m the third day we reach the direct route leading from Mt. Sor
hal to the Nakb cl-llfiwi, etc. (see p. 501).

'Anmm will be visited by scientific travellers only (5-6 days' journey ].
The first day from the monastery of Si. Catharine is generally short on
account of the late start. - On the 2nd Day the watershed between the
Gulf of Suez and that of ultaba is crossed, and the Wadi Sa'l traversed.



