to Sinai.'AKABA. JO. Route. 519

Beyond the dei Mam-a the route is not easily found, even by the Beduins, until after 2 his. we reach a sandy plain extending to the foot of
the Jebel et-Tih. After 4 hrs. we pass the "Am el-Khadz-u, a spring with
a few palms, lying to the right, probably the Biblical Hazeroth. After
having passed through a narrow defile, we proceed to the ICE. by a
sandy path, enter the plain of El-Glzdr, traverse the spurs of the Tih
chain, and reach the Wridi Ghazdl, with its steep slopes of sandstone. The
night is passed in the Wadi er-Ruwe'hibz'yeh .--3rd Day. Beyond the
Wadi expands a plain of sandstone, varied with granite and diorite. In
21/2 hrs. we reach the broad Wctdi Samghi, quit it (13/111121. turn towards
the 13.13., and traverse huge masses of rock and slopes by a gradually
1111101 ug path. The narrowest part is called El-Huwéb,'the little gate".
The path, which now expands and is covered with gravel, gradually approaches the Red Sea. or rather the beautiful, bluish green Gulf of'Akaba.
In another hour we come to the good spring of Et-Tervdbia, bordered
with palms. The night is spent on the sea-shore. - 4th Day. The route
skirts the shell- strewn shore The coast mountains are formed of grey
granite. Towards noon the spring of A012 Elmira is reached, and we
pitch our tents near the Wadi Huwémirdt. We observe curious crabs here
which take up their abode in empty shells, and walk about with them
on their backs. The hills on the opposite coast of the Bahr'A.kaba, or
Gulf of'Al.caba, are insignificant. From our quarters for the night the
Arabian village of Halal is visible. - 5th Day. The route leads across
promontories stretching far out into the sea, a precipitous pass, and
then several more promontories, particularly near the dei Alei'dkh. The
territory of the Tawara terminates here, and that of the Hnwétat Beduius begins. Negociations for a new escort must be made with the
latter, who are often unreasonable. About 4 hrs from the Wiidi 1Jawtmiriit we observe a small island of granite a few hundred yards from
the shore, with two hills bearing the ruins of a castle of the Saracens,
probably the Fort Aila, which was unsuccessfully besieged by 11111111111
of Chatillon in 1182. The island is now called Km'et'yeh, Gezirel Fame,
or Pharaoh's island. The broad midi .Tdba', farther N., contains a bitter
spring and dam-palms. Dr. Robinson found a square cistern excavated
here, lined with red stone. The Rds el- -Maqri, a promontory of darkcoloured stone, must be rounded, the mountains recede, and we soon
reach the broad De-rb et-Hajj, or route of the Mecca pilgrims. We now
skirt the extremity of the gulf, cross a saline swamp, leave the ruins
of a town on the left, proceed to the S., and atlength enter the fortress
which lies on the E. bank of the bay.

'Ahaba ({ fal'at el-'A.kaba). In this neighbourhood lay the Elam of
Scripture, which is mentioned on the occasion of the voyages to Ophir,
and which was garrisoned during the Roman period by the tenth legion.
It was afterwards called Aim, and was still inhabited by Jews as well as
Christians at the time of the Crusades. In order to protect themselves
against the attacks of the Saracens, the inhabitants pretended to possess
a letter of protection from Mohammed. (According to another account they
possess a robe which the prophet is said to have given to John, son of
Rubah, the Jewish prince, as a pledge that the Jews might carry on
their trade without hindrance.) Down to the 15th cent. the town is
spoken of as a large and prosperous commercial place. During the hymn »
tine period it paid tribute to the emperors, but was afterwards under
the protection of the governors and Mohammedan princes of Egypt, and
was especially patronised by Ahmed Ibn 1.hpi'1n. During the crusades it
was taken by the Franks, but in A.D. 1170 Saladin caused boats to be
brought by camels from the Mediterranean to the Red Sea, and recaptured
Ana. The place, moreover, though on the great pilgrimage-route to
Mecca soon decayed, till at last nothing of it remained but a fort on
the mainland, and one on the island of Kureiyeh The Turkish fortress
of'Ahaba is rectangular in form, each angle of its massive walls being
defended by a tower. The entrance, with Its iron clad gate (bearing an
old Arabic inscription), is also protected by towers.

Travellers interested in Biblical geography may visit the Wadi Them,



