Population. GEOGRAPHICAL NOTICE. 37

Vince of Bahr el-Abyad, where in the case of the Shilluk tribe,
numbering about one million souls, the proportion of inhabitants
to the square mile is the same as in Egypt proper. The total population of the empire, including Dar--Fur and Ilarar, is now estimated at between 16 and 17 millions.

Origin and Descent of the Egyptians. For thousands of years
the banks of the Nile have been occupied by the Egyptians, the
oldest nation known to history, and still exhibiting many of their
ancient personal characteristics unaltered. Notwithstanding the interminable series of immigration and other changes affecting the
character of the inhabitants, the Egyptian type has always predominated with marvellous uniformity. As Egypt is said to be the
'gift of the Nile', so has the character of its inhabitants been apparently moulded by the influences ofthat river. No country in
the world is so dependent on a river which traverses it as Egypt,
and no river presents physical characteristics so exceptional as the
Nile; so, too, there exists no race of people which possesses so
marked and unchanging an individuality as the Egyptians. It is
therefore most probable that this unvarying type is the product of
the soil itself, and that the character of the peoples who settled at
different periods on the bank of the Nile, whatever it may originally have been, has in due course of time been moulded to the
same constant form by the mysterious influences of the river. In
all countries, indeed, national characteristics are justly regarded
as the natural outcome of soil and climate, and of this connection
no country affords so strong an illustration as Egypt, with its sharply
defined boundaries of sea and desert, and in its complete isolation
from the rest of the world. These considerations tend to throw
serious doubts on all the current theories as to the origin of the
Egyptians. According to the Bible, MizraimO'Iisraim ] was the son
of Ham and brother of Canaan and the Ethiopian Cash; and, as his
name was applied by the Hebrews to Egypt, it is probable that he
migrated with his sons from Asia to the banks ofthe Nile. The name,
moreover, of Ludim, his eldest son, corresponds to the word Rotu,
or Lotu, the hieroglyphic name for the Egyptians. Philologists,
who have discovered points of resemblance in the roots and inflections of the ancient Egyptian and the Semitic languages, likewise
come to the conclusion that the Egyptians originally came from
Asia, either by way ofSuez, or across the Red Sea from Arabia. The
ethnographeri, on the other hand, who observes that many of the

'1' No inference can legitimately be drawn from the fact that the
skulls of the ancient and modern Egyptians, which are very similar in
form, have no affinity with those which are usually described as of the
negro type, as our craniological collections are very incomplete, and our
knowledge of the negro races imperfect. The fact is, that several negro
races, such as the Nubians and the Shilluk, might be named, whose
characteristics undoubtedly belong to the negro type, while their skulls
are just as little prognathous as those of the Egyptians.



