520 Route HI. WADI ESH-SHEKH. From Sinai

as far as the Jebel Bm'ghir (b5 hm). This mountain, which is said to
he known to the Arabs as the Jebel en-fi'flr ('Mountain of Light'), hits hutch
recently supposed hy m. Boke to be the Mt Sinai of Scripture, on be
grounds that the Arabs regard it as sacred, and say that Noses once
converged here with the Lord; that sacrifices were once offered on its
summit; and that stones in an upright position, and Sinaitic inscriptions, have been found here.

FROM'AlfAllA T0 PETRA. rl'he rAlawin Arabs at'Algaha are very
exorbitant in their demands, often rude in their manners, and rarely
trustworthy. At times the route through their territory to the ancient
Rock City is not unattended with danger. and careful enquiry on the
subject should be made at Cairo and Sues before starting An experienced dragoman, and one who is acquainted with the Shékhs, will be found
very useful. From'Al.caba to Petra, by the direct route, is a journey of
3 days, but viii Nakhleh 4-5 days. From Petra to Hebron, 5-6 days, if
nothing untoward occurs. Attractive as Petra itself is, this route to it
is not more interesting than those leading to Sinai, and the traveller can
hardly be recommended to enter Palestine from this direction. A description of Petra, and of the journey to Jerusalem, will be found in Baedeker's
Palestine and Syria.

Return Route from the Monastery of Sinai to Suez by the wiidi eshShékh, and via. Sarli.t el-Kh'adem (comp. p. 475, and Maps pp. 496, 470).

On starting from the monastery, we first turn to the N. W. in the
Wadi ed-Dér (p. 502), leave the plain of Er-Raha (p. 513 ] to the left,
and turn to the NE. into the dei esh-Shékh, which is joined by
the Wai es-Sadad (p. 513) on the S., 1 hr. farther OIL On the
right rises the Jebet ed-Dér, or Mountain of the Monastery' (p. 502),
and on the left the Jebel Sana (p. 513 ], both of which are barren and
precipitous. On the left, farther on, is the Jebet Khizamiyeh. The
broad wadi esh-Shékh, which is inhabited at places, extends in a
large semicircle of about 15 hours' journey from the Jebel Miisa
towards the N.W. down to thc Widi Firin (p. 500), presenting on
the whole but little attraction. After 11/4 hr. more we observe the
Tomb of the & lilt (Nebi Filo, which is highly revered by
the Bednins, and from which the valley derives its name. Like all
these weli's [ p. 184), the monument is an insignificant cubical
building, whitewashed, and covered with a dome, and contains an
empty sarcophagus. The interior contains votive offerings, such as
tassels, shawls, ostriches' eggs, camels'-halters, and bridles. The
'l'awara Beduins regard Shékh Salih as their ancestor; he was probably, however, an early Mohammedan prophet celebrated for his
eloquence, whois extolled inthe Koran as one of the most venerable
of the patriarchs. He is said to have called forth a living camel
out of the rocks, and to have destroyed by an earthquake some of the
proud Thamudites, to whom he had been sent, for their unbelief
and for their wickedness in mutilating the knees of the sacred
came ]. Every May a great festival takes place here, accompanied
with sacrifices, feasting, and games, at which women also are
present, and a smaller festival takes place after the date harvest.
At the close of the proceedings the children of the desert ascend
the Jebel Man, and there oiTer sacrifices to Moses (p. 512).



