to Sues. WADI LEBWEH. 10. Route. 521

To the W. of the tomb a hill, bearing a few ruins, rises from
the valley. We next pass (1/4111) the entrance to the lVdLli Suwéri'ych
on the right, which is traversed by the route to'Ahaha (p. 518 ].
Opposite us, to the left, are several small towers, above which rises
the pointed Jebel Feri'. The valley contracts, but after 1/3 hr. expands into a wide basin, bounded on the N. by a chain of precipitous rocky slopes. Beyond this basin [ 40 min.) and beyond the
mouth of the Wadi Shim, on the left, the route traverses (10 min.)
the El-Watiyeh Pass (4022 no, enclosed by imposing masses of
granite. Immediately beyond it rises a stone, resembling an altar,
with a white summit, which the Beduins point out as the scene of
Abraham's sacrifice. A rock near it, in the form of a chair, is
called the Malt-" ad Nebi Mdsa, or seat of the prophet Moses, which
he is said to have occupied while tending the sheep of his fatherin-law Jethro (p. 502).

At this point begins the lower part of the Esh-Shékh valley.
The character of the region becomes less mountainous, and the
route enters an undulating district. In less than an hour we reach
a luxuriant growth of tarfa shrubs, which extends for a distance of
about 11/2 M. (comp p. 500). Beyond these shrubs, on the left,
opens the Wadi I.fa.sah, which leads to the S. to the Nahb el-Hawi
(p. 501 ], and contains a number of palm-trees. Near the (11/4 hr.)
dei Maghérfit, which lies to the right, is the valley of Esh-Shékh,
which, according to Pro f. Palmer's measurements, lies 3556 ft. above
the sea-level. The imposing mass of Mt. Serbzil now becomes
visible. hear the (1er dei et--Tan (right) are a few inscriptions
(p. 494). The next valley on the right is the (35 min.) Wadi Soléf;
and opposite to it opens the broad Wadi Sahel; through which
the Nahb el-Llawi (p. 501) may be reached in 5 hrs. At this point
(2856 ft.) our route quits the Widi E-sh Shikh, which leads to the
(23/4 hrs.) defile of El-Bawcsb o. 501) farther S. We ascend
rapidly to the N.W. in the western part of the Wtdi Sam", which
soon contracts to a gorge. Several valleys are now crossed, particularly the Wt'zdi el-Akhdar and the dei el-'Ishsh, as well as the
low ranges of hills which separate them; and in 13/4111. we reach
the long dei Berah, lying at the base of the Jebel of the same
name. We now ascend this valley, obtaining at first a fine retrospect
of the Sinai group, the Jebel Mfisa, and the Katherin, and reach the
top of the pass at the base of the pyramidal hill of Zibb el-Bulté'lr
A617. Balta'riyeh (3895 it). We next enter the broad Wédi Lebweh,
through which the route, now monotonous and nearly straight,
descends in less than 2 hrs. to the foot of the Nath Wridi Bamk.
The wear Lebweh, which makes a bend here and descends to the
Wadi Firin, now takes the name of Wtdi el-'Alpir. Our route
ascends in 1/2 hr. to the top of the Nahb Widi Barak Pass, beyond
which begins the Wadi Bank, a wild, stone-besprinkled valley,
sometimes contracting to a gorge, and overgrown with remarkably






