522 Route 10. sanm'rr uL-KIIRDEM. From Sinai l

fine old seyfil trees. Near the head of the valley are several'Nawdmis'
(stone huts; see p. 501 ], Sinaitic inscriptions, and large fragments
of a rude granite wall. The latter is said to have been erected by the
Tawfira Beduins, in order to arrest the progress of troops sent by
Mohammed Ali to punish them for pillaging a caravan; but it appears to be of earlier date. It extends along both slopes of the valley, but there is a wide opening where the route passes through it.

On the right opens the Wihii Mesakkar, and on the left, lower
down, the Wridi Tayyibeh, at the base of the lofty DabbtusHWi.
In 21/4 hrs. more the Whdi Barak reaches the Wadi Silt, which
after 3/4 hr. turns sharply to the left, leading to the Widi Sidr,
while the Wadi al-Mzrayih on the right leads to the Debbet erRumtch. Our route runs to the N.W.7 gradually ascending, and
and in 1/2 hr. reaches a narrow sandy plain called the Debébet Shah
Ahmed, from the tomb of a Beduin chief of that name to the right
of the path. "'0 then descend into the Wihli Klmmfteh, in which
we again ascend to (p, hrs.) the Km vaik (2475 ft.) 0n the left
is the picturesque Jebel Ghm-abi, a curiously eroded mass of sandstone, with several Sinaitic inscriptions. An extensive view is
obtained over the Til, hills and the plain of Ramleh.

We descend from the pass by a steep zigzag path into the Wadi
Sawik, in which after 11/2 hr. we reach the mouth of the small
lVddi Memttameh, situated at the foot of the hills called Sarbnt
el-Khadem.

On the neighbouring hill, 690 ft. in height, are situated a
number of interesting monuments, dating from the period of the
Pharaohs, and re-discovered by Niebuhr in 1762. The ascent from
the wan Merattameh, which is somewhat fatiguing, and requires
a steady head, occupies fully an hour. On the level plateau
on the top are numerous monuments with hieroglyphic inscriptions. There are traces of an old enclosing wall, 57 yds. long, and
23 yds. broad, surrounded by sixteen ancient Egyptian upright
monuments 0. Similar stones bearing inscriptions are lying on
the ground, and there are the ruins of a small temple. The sanctuary and a pronaos of this edifice were hewn in the rocks in the
reign of Amenemha IlI. (19th l) yn.), and furnished with handsomely painted inscriptions (which, however, are nearly obliterated),
and niches for images. In the reign of Thothmes 111. (13th Dyn.)
the temple was extended towards the W. by the erection of a pylon
and anterior court, and several rooms on the W. side were afterwards added by other kings. The dimensions of the whole building
are comparatively small. As in the Wirli Maghira (p. 491), the
goddess [ [ athor, and particularly the llathor of Mafkat (p. 492),
was principally worshipped here. The inscriptions indicate that
this spot, instead of being a burial-place with its tombstones, as
one would at first have supposed, was a religious edifice with a
number of chambers for various purposes.



