to Sues. SARBICIT EL-KHADEM. 10. Route. 5'23

Khadem (Khatem) is the ancient Egyptian word for an enclosed
space, a fort, or castle; and Sarbfit (pl. Serabit) signifies a hill, or
peak, in the language of the Bednins in the peninsula; so that
Serabit el-Rhttdern signifies'the heights of the fortified place". In
the neighbourhood copper and mafkat were formerly worked, and the
plateau was occupied with smelting furnaces, and a temple where
the miners and the overseers assembled to celebrate various festivals. The dwellings of the workmen and their overseers, and the
magazines, must have been nearer the mines, several of which in
the WAdi Nash (see below) still yield a considerable quantity of
copper. Most of the monuments on the plateau were erected by the
superior mining officials, who wished to hand down their names
and merits to posterity, mentioning the king in whose reign they
obtained their appointments, the mineral (mafkat and ore) they
worked, the number of miners they employed, the zeal with which
they performed their duties, and the accidents which befall them
during their term of office. Victories over the native mountain
tribes are sometimes also mentioned.

The large heaps of black stone in the vicinity, resembling the
slag from a foundry, are partly of natural form; but artificially
produced slag also occurs in the valleys between Sarbut el-Kh'adeni
and the wan Nash. The old mines were re-discovered by ML
Holland, a member of the last English Survey expedition, while
others had already been discovered and described by Riippell in the
Wadi Nasb. It appears from the inscriptions that the mines of
Sarbfit el-Khadem, like those of the Wi'rdi Maghara, were first sunk
in the reign of Snefru (p. 491) at an early period of the Prinizeval
Monarchy, and that they were worked for a still longer period than
the latter, and certainly down to the 20th Dynasty. The cartouche
of Ramses w. is also said to have been found here. The mines
of Sarbfit el-Khadem must therefore have been worked after the period of the Exodus, while in those of the Widi Maghtra the name
of Ramses IL, the Pharaoh of the oppression, is the last which
occurs in the inscriptions.

About 3/4 hr. to the S.E. of the plateau are several tombs of the
18th Dyn. discovered by Sir Gardner Wilkinson, probably those of
overseers of the mines. At a distance of'2 111's. thence the remains
of miners' dwellings were found by Major Macdonald (p. 490).

A visit to these monuments takes half-a-day. Those who desire
to make a thorough inspection, and to visit the Wadi Nash, will
require a whole day. They should then walk from Farbii.t el Culem
along the hills to the dei Nath, at the entrance to which are a
spring, shaded by palms, some ruins, the traces of old gardens,
and a quantity of slag brought from the mines, 11/211r. to the N. W.

'We find here a number of unusually thick layers of earthy oxide of
copper, inserted in wedge-like form between the horizontal strata of sand
stone. At many places the metalliferous formation seems to be about
200 ft. in thickness. The ancient natives have driven shafts through these








