524 Route 10. WAD ] EL-HOMR.

rocks in many different directions, and excavated them in the form of
lnlnyrinths, whilst rug in the Winn Meghan) they left pillars here and
there to prevent the roof from falling in. To judge from the extent of the
mines the quantity of ore obtained must have been very considerable.
To this day one of the mines contains a considerable quantity of copper
ore, while another, where chambers 80 ft. in length have been excavated,
seems to have been given up as exhausted'. (RiipplllJ

0n the hill above the mines stands an ancient Egyptian obelisk
with half-obliterated hieroglyphics.

Descending the Wadi Nagh towards the N. we reach the month
of the Wadi Hobfiz (see below), where the caravan should be
ordered to await our arrival. K

Beyond the Wiili Merattameh the Suez route continues to follow
the Widi Sfiwik, to the N. W., passing a number of fine seyal trees
of great ago. After 1 hr. the valley takes the name of dei Hobos,
and in less than 1 hr. more it unites with the Writli Nusb, which
almost immediately joins the l Tali Bibi, a valley leading to the
S.E. to the Hanalc el-Lalcam (p. 490). At the junction of the
Ijnbflz and Nash valleys our route turns to the right, and leads
across the sandy table-land of Debbet el-Kemi in 3 hrs. to the
beginning of the Wadi el-IJomr. Ascending a little towards the
middle of the lofty plain, we enjoy a fine view of the Sarbfit elJemel (9175 ft), rising to the W. opposite to us, beyond the Wadi
110nm To the left, in the distance, are picturesquely shaped
mountains with flat summits; to the right is the Tih range; and
behind us are the hills of Sarbdt el--Khadem, the Jebel Ghfirabi,
and the distant Mt. Serbi1.

We now descend to the broad route leading to Nakhleh (p. 52 (0.
on the right rises the long Jebel Plein'. On the ground here we
observe a number of curious geological formations, consisting of
slabs and fragments of sandstone encrusted with nodules of iron
ore, with a large admixture of silica, grouped like bunches of
grapes. Some of these are perfectly spherical.

The Wadi eI-Homr is a broad valley flanked by low limestone
hills. It is commanded on the N. side by the Sarbfit el--Jemel (see
above). From this valley a path, practicable for camels, traverses
the Wddi Mesulckar and several other valleys, and leads direct
to the Wthli etle Thai (p 4801. The regular route follows the Wtuli
el-ljomr to its union with the Wfidi Shebfikeh (see p. 489). Thence
to Suez, see pp. 469-485,






