38 GEOGRAPHICAL NOTICE. Population.

domestic utensils employed by the ancient Egyptians, as well as
many of their customs, are similar to those of the dwellers on
the banks of the Zambezi and Niger, but totally different from
those seen on the banks of the Indus or Euphrates, will always
maintain an opposite view. The considerations already mentioned,
however, tend to show that the truth lies between these extremes.
Even those who most strongly maintain the Asiatic origin of
the Egyptians will probably admit that the immigrants found
an aboriginal race already settled on the banks of the Nile, which
in its persistent opposition to all foreign influences was doubtless
similar to the race usually known as the Egyptian. We start with
the cardinal fact. that, although the country has been at various
periods overrun by llyksos, Ethiopians, Assyrians, Persians, Greeks,
Romans, Arabs, and Turks, and although the people were tyrannised over, ill-treated, and in most cases compelled to intermarry
with these foreigners, the Egyptians have for thousands of years
retained the same unvarying physical types, while their character
has been but slightly modified by the introduction of Christianity
and Mohammedanism. If it now be borne in mind that these
foreigners generally invaded the country in the form of an army,
that they formed but a small body compared with the bulk of the
population, and that they either married native women or sought
wives in other countries, it is obvious that they would either coutinne to exist for a time as a foreign caste. a condition apparently
repugnant to nature and necessarily transient, or that they would
gradually succumb to the never-failing influences of the soil and
he absorbed in the great mass of the aboriginal inhabitants. An
excellent illustration of this process is afforded by the Arabian invasion, with the circumstances and results of which we are better
acquainted than with the history of the other foreign immigrations;
for. disregarding the lleduin tribes, who are entirely distinct from
the Egyptian population, we now find that the Arabian element
has entirely disappeared, and we meet with genuine Arabs in the
towns only, where the merchants, pilgrims, and other members of
that people form a class entirely distinct from the natives, and
where their existence is only maintained by means of reinforcements from abroad. Another proof of the transforming: influences
of the Egyptian climate is afforded by the uniform character of the
domestic animals. The oxen, in particular (which, however, are
gradually being replaced by the buffalo), though they have often
been repeatedly exterminated in a single century by murrain, and
have been succeeded by foreign races from every quarter of the
globe, invariably after a few generations assume the well-known
Egyptian type with which the representations on the ancient temples
render us so familiar.

The Modern Egyptians. The population of Egypt is composed
of the following ten difl'erent elements.



