Fellfilzin. THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. 39

(1). The FELLXniN (sing. felldb ], the'tillers' or'peasants',
form the bulk of the population, and may be regarded as the sinews
of the national strength. They are generally slightly above the
middle height; their bones, and particularly their skulls, are strong
and massive; and their wrists and ankles are powerful and somewhat clumsy. In all these respects the fellahiu, as well as their
domestic animals, contrast strongly with the inhabitants of the
desert, the fellah and the Beduin differing from each other precisely
in the same points as their respective camels. Notwithstanding this
largeness of frame, however, the fellah never grows fat. The
woman and girls are particularly remarkable for their slender build,
and they often speak of each other as'zei el--habl', or slender as a
rope. The men generally keep their heads shaved, but the hair
of the soldiers and the long tresses ofthe girls, though always black
and often curly, is by no means of the short, woolly negro type.

The chief peculiarity of the Egyptians is the remarkable closeness of their eyelashes on both lids, forming a dense, double, black
fringe, which gives so animated an expression to their almondshaped eyes. The very ancient and still existing custom ofhlackening the edges of the eyelids with antimony ['kohl'), which is said
to serve a sanitary purpose, contributes to enhance this natural
expression. The eyebrows are always straight and smooth, never
bushy. The mouth is wide and thick-lipped, and very different
from that of the lleduin or inhabitant of the oases. The high cheekbones, the receding forehead, the lowness of the bridge of the nose,
which is always distinctly separated from the forehead, and the
flatness of the nose itself, are the chief characteristics of the
Egyptian skull; but, as the jaws project less than those of most
of the other African coloured races, it has been assumed that the
skull is Asiatic, and not African in shape. The Egyptian peasantry
have a much darker complexion than their compatriots in the towns,
and their colour deepens as we proceed southwards, from the pale
brown of the inhabitant of the Delta to the dark bronze hue of the
Upper Egyptians. There is also a difference between the tint of the
Nubians and that of the Upper Egyptians, even where they live in
close contiguity, the former being more of a reddish-brown.

The dwelling of the fella ]; is of a miserably poor description,
consisting generally of four low walls formed of crude bricks of
Nile mud, and thatched with a'roof of dura straw, rush, rags, or old
straw-mats. In the interior are a few mats, a sheep's skin, several
baskets made of matting, a copper kettle, and a few earthenware
pots and wooden dishes. Instead of using the crude bricks, the
fellahin in Upper Egypt often form the walls of their huts ofa
mixture of mud and straw. The dark, windowless interior is entered by a small opening, in front of which the proprietor usually
forms an enclosure of circular shape, with a wall of mud about
5 ft. in height. This is the court--yard ofthe establishment, and the






