Fcllvihint THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. 41

The agricultural population ongypt does not exceed two million
souls, an unnaturally low proportion when we consider the nature of
the country. The sole wealth of Egypt is derived from its agriculture,
and to the fellahin alone is committed the important task of tilling
the soil. They are, indeed, neither fitted nor inclined for other work,
a circumstance which proves how completely the stationary character
of the ancient Egyptians has predominated over the restless Arabian blood, which has been largely infused into the native population ever since the valley of the Nile was conquered by the armies
ofEl-Islam. The modern Egyptians, moreover, resemble the ancient
in the lot to which they are condemned. In ancient times the
fellah, pressed into the service of the priests and the princes,
was compelled to yield up to them the fruits of his toil, and his
position is nearly the same at the present day. save that the names
of his masters are changed, and he has obtained some relief owing to the almost entire abolition of compulsory work.

In early life the Egyptian peasant is remarkably docile, active,
and intelligent, but at a later period this freshness and buoyancy is
crushed out of him by care and poverty and his never-teasing task
of filling the pitcher of the Danaides. He ploughs and reaps, tails
and amasses, but he cannot with certainty regard his crops as his
own, and the hardly earned piastre is too frequently wrested from
him. His character, therefore, becomes like that oh gifted child,
who has been harshly used and brought up to domestic slavery, but
at length perceives that he has been treated with injustice, and
whose amiability and intelligence are then superseded by sullenness
and obstinacy. Thus. as in the time of Ammianns Marcellinns, the
fella ]; will often suffer the most cruel blows in dogged silence rather
than pay the taxes demanded of him.

In his own fields the fellah is an industrious labourer, and his
work is more continuous than that of the peasant of more northern
countries. He enjoys no period of repose during the winter. and the
whole of his spare time is occupied in drawing water for the irrigation of the land. Notwithstanding his hard lot, however, he is an
entire stranger to any endeavour to better his condition or to improve his system of farming. As soon as he has accomplished the
most necessary tasks he rests and smokes, and trusts that Allah will
do the remainder of his work for him.

The fella }; is a believer in the religion of Mohammed, although
he knows but little of the prophet's doctrines and history. Followers of all other religions he believes to be doomed to eternal perdition; but travellers are not on that account disliked by him. We
serve rather to confirm his belief in eternal justice, for he is convinced that all the comforts and luxuries we now enjoy will be
counterbalanced by torments hereafter. At the same time he admires
and over-rates our knowledge, which is so superior to his own. Every
well-dressed European is in the estimation of the natives a prodigy






