42 THE MODERN EGYPTIANS, Cop,

of wisdom; and, as their ideas of a scholar and a physician are.
identical, they place implicit reliance on our ability to heal the
sick and to save the dying. The traveller who comes in contact
with the follirhiu will often be applied to for medicine. and will
often find drugs more effective than money in securing their good will.

"Form (k my. While we have regarded the fellahin as
genuine Egyptians in consequence oftheir uninterrupted occupation
of the soil, the religion of the Copts affords us an additional guarantee
for the purity of their descent The Copts are undoubtedly the most
direct descendants of the ancient Egyptians, there being no ground
for the assumption that their ancestors were foreign immigrants who
embraced Christianity after the conquest of the country by the
Mohammedans, while on the other hand the obstinacy with which
they defended their monophysite Christianity for several centuries
against the inroads of the creed of Byzantium affords another
indication of their Egyptian character. The Coptic population is
officially stated as 250,000, but these figures are obviously too low,
and the number is more probably about 400,000, i.e. about a fifth
of the purely indigenous population of the valley of the Niles? They
are most numerous in the towns of Northern Egypt, around the
ancient Coptos, at Negada, Lulgsor, Esneh, Dendera, Girgeh, Tahta,
and particularly at Shit and Akhmim. A large proportion of the
population of all these places is Coptic.

The Coptic Patriarch is elected from their own number by the monks
of the five chief monasteries of Egypt. These are the monasteries of St.
Anthony and St. Paul in the western desert, the two in the valley of the
Natrun Lakes, and the large convent of Mar-rag, near Monfnlfit.

Most ofthe Copts are dwellersin towns. andare chiefly engagedin
the more refined handicrafts C Watchmakers. goldsmiths, jewellers,
embroiderers, tailors, weavers, manufacturers of spurious antiquities,
eta } or in trade, or as clerks, accountants, and notaries. Their
physique is accordingly materially different from that of the fellahin. They are generally somewhat below the middle height, and of
delicate frame, with small hands and feet; their skulls are higher
and narrower than those of the peasantry, and with less protruding
cheek-bones; and, lastly, their complexion is fairer. These diffcrenees are sufficiently accounted for by their mode of life; for,
when we compare those Copts who are engaged in rustic pursuits,
or the Coptic camel drivers of Upper Egypt, with the fellahin, we
find that the two races are not distinguishable from each other. The
two distinct types have also been recognized in the skeletons of the
ancient mummies.

Few nations in the East embraced the Gospel more zealously
than the dwellers on the Nile. Accnstomed as they had long been
to regard life as a pilgrimage to death, as a school of preparation for

'l" The total number of Christians in Egypt, ine, Arm minus, and Syrians, is about 000,000, lt nnc tt-uth ul the, t'lll C








