Copts. THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. 43

another world, and weary of their motley and confused Pantheon
of divinities, whose self-seeking priesthood designedly disguised
the truth, they eagerly welcomed the simple doctrines of Christianity,
which appeared so well adapted to their condition and promised
them Sut'eour and redemption. Like Eutyches, they revered the
divine nature of the Saviour only, in which they held that every
human element was absorbed, and when the Council of Chalcedon
in 451 sanctioned the doctrine that Christ combined a human with
a divine nature, the Egyptians, with their characteristic tenacity
adhered to their old views, and formed a sect termed Entychians, or
Monophysites, to which the Copts of the present day still belong.

The name of the Copts is an ethnical one, being simply an Arabic cur »
ruption of the Greek name of Egyptians. The theory is new exploded that
they derive their name from a certain itinerant preacher named Jacobus,
who according to Mahrizi was termed El-Beriidin, or'blanket-bearer', from
the old horse-cloth worn by him when he went about preaching. This
Jacobus promulgated the monophysite doctrine of Eutyches, which had
found its most zealous supporter in Dioscurus, a bishop of Alexandria,
who was declared a heretic and banished after the Council of Chalcedon;
and his disciples were sometimes called Jacolvites. If this name had ever
been abbreviated to Habit or Cobt, it would probably have occurred
frequently in the writings of Monophysites; but there we find no trace
of it. It is, on the other hand, quite intelligible that the word Copt,
though originally synonymous with Egyptian. should gradually have come
to denote a particular religious sent; for, at the period when the valley
Tras conquered by'Amr, the native Egyptians. who almost
exclusively held the monophysite creed, were chiefly distinguished by
their religion from their invaders, who brought a new religious system
from the East.

These Egyptian Christians strenuously opposed the resolutions of
the Council of Chalcedon. and thousands of them sacrificed their
lives or their welfare in the fierce and sauguiuary conflicts of the
Gth century, the causes of which were imperfectly understood by
the great majority of the belligerents. The subtle dogmatic differences which gave rise to these wars aroused such hatred among
these professors of the religion of love, that the defeated Monophysites readily welcomed the invading armies of El-Tshirts, or perhaps
even invited them to their country.

After the conquest of Egypt by'Amr the Copts were at first
treated with lenity, and were even appointed to the highest government offices; but they were soon doomed to suffer persecutions and
privations of every description. These persecutions were mainly
due to their unbounded arrogance and their perpetual conspiracies
against their new masters, and their Mohammedan contemporaries
even attributed to them the disastrous conflagrations from which the
new capital of the country so frequently suffered (p. 242). Accustomed for many ages to regard themselves as the most civilised of
nations, and the Greeks as their inferiors, they perhaps imagined,
that, if they succeeded in throwing off the yoke of the barbarous
children of the desert, they could prevent the revival of the hated
iyzantiue supremacy. Their hopes, however, were damned to bitter








