44 THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. Copts.,

disappointment. and their national pride to utter humiliation. Their
conquerors succeeded in maintaining their position, and though
apparently at first inclined to moderation, were at length driven by
the conduct and the previous example of the Copts themselves to
persecute and oppress them to the uttermost.

In spite, however, of all these disasters, a numerous community
of Copes has always existed in Egypt, a fact which is mainly to be
accounted for by the remarkable tenacity and constancy of the
Egyptian character. Owing, however, to the continual oppression and contempt to which they have been subjected, the grave
disposition of the subjects of the Pharaohs has degenerated into
sullen gloom, and their industry into cupidity. The raneonr which
they have so long cherished has embittered their character, while
the persecutions they have suffered have taught them to be at one
time cringing, and at another arrogant and overbearing. They are
in very few respects superior to their Mohammedan countrymen
They generally possess an hereditary aptitude for mathematical
science, and are therefore in great request as book-keepers and
accountants, but on the other hand they are entirely destitute of the
generous and dignified disposition of the Arabs. They obey their
law which forbids polygamy, but constantly abuse that which permits them to indulge in spirituous liquors, drunkards being frequently met with, even among their priests. Their divine worship
will strike the traveller as strange, and anything but edifying or
elevating

The traveller may distinguish the Copts from the Arabs by their
dark turbans, which are generally blue or black, and their darkeoloured clothes. This costume was originally prescribed by their
Oppressors, and they still take a pride in it as a mark of their origin,
though now permitted to dress as they please. A practised eye will
also frequently detect among them the ancient Egyptian cast of
features. Towards strangers the Copt is externally obliging, and
when anxious to secure their favour he not nnfrcquently appeals to
his Christian creed as a bond of union. Many Copts have recently
been converted to Protestantism by American missionaries, particularly in Upper Egypt, chiefly through the foundation of good
schools and the distribution of cheap Arabic Bibles. Even the
orthodox Copts have a great reverence for the sacred volume, and it
is not uncommon to meet with members of their sect who know the
whole of the gospels by heart. The Roman propaganda, which was
begun by Franciscans at the end of the 17th and beginning of the
15th cent., has been less successful among the Copts, and there
now exist a few small Roman Catholic communities in Upper Egypt
only (atCrirgeir, Akhmim, and Negadal. To the llomauists, however,
is partly due the preservation of the old Coptic language, into which
they caused the gospels to be translated by the most learned scholars
of the day [ accompanied by a preface asserting the supremacy of






