Beduins. THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. 45

the pope) for circulation in Egypt. Notwithstanding the serious
defects to which we have alluded, the Coptic community boasts of
a number of highly respectable members, and in spite of the frequent
heavy contributions levied from the sect by previous governments,
it contains several wealthy landowners and merchants, some of
whom we shall hereafter have occasion to name.

3. BBDUIxs. Bedu (sing. bedawi) is the name applied to the
nomadic Arabs, and: Arab to those who immigrated at a later period and settled in the valley of the Nile. They both differ materially from the dwellers in towns and from the fellahin, who
usually call themselves'Sons of the Arabs' (Ibn el-'Arab). The
subdivisions of the Beduin tribes are called Kabi'leh (whence
the name Kabyles, applied to some of the Algerian lledru'nsL
Though differing greatly in origin and language, the wandering
tribes of Egypt all profess Mohammedanism. Again, while some
of them have immigrated from Arabia or Syria, partly in very
ancient, and partly in modern times, and while others are supposed to be the aboriginal inhabitants of the territories claimed
by them (as the Berbers of N. Africa and the Ethiopians or Blemmyes of Nubia ], or former dwellers on the Nile expelled from their
homes by foreign invaders, they all differ greatly from the stationary
Egyptian population; and this contrast is accounted for by the
radical difference between the influences of the desert and those of
the Nile valley. The Beduins may be divided into two leading
groups: [ 1) Beduins in the narrower sense, i. 6. Arabic speaking
tribes, most of whom have probably immigrated from Arabia or Syria, and who occupy the deserts adjoining Central and Northern
Egypt, or who are to be found in different regions of Southern Nubia
as a pastoral people; (P)'Bega', who range over the regions of Upper
Egypt and Nubia situated between the Nile and the Red Sea. and
extending to the frontiers of the Abyssinian mountains (their territory being known as'Edbai'). To these last the name of Ethiopians may as accurately be applied as that of Arabs to the first
group; and they are believed by Dr. Lepsius to be the descendants
of the Blemmyes, who occupied the Nubian part of the valley of the
Nile down to the 4th cent. after Christ, when they were expelled
by'Nubian' invaders from the south. The second group consists of
three different races, the Hadendoa, the Bisharin, and the Ababdeh.
The last-named, who are widely scattered in the valleys of the
desert between the tropics and the latitude of Keneh and Igosér,
and who lead a poverty-stricken life with their very scanty stock of
camels and goats, are those with whom alone we have to deal as
inhabitants of Egypt. Though closely resembling the other Boga
tribes in appearance, the Ababdeh (sing. Abidi, the Gebadei of
Pliny) possess an original language of their own C'to-bedyawiyeh0,
which, however, they have long since exchanged for had Arabic.
Besides the girdle round their loins they wear a kind of long white








