40 TIW, MODERN EGYPTIANS. Bcduins.'

shirt, and in winter a light-coloured striped Woollen mantle, while
the liisharin and Iladendoa tend their large flocks of sheep and
herds of camels in a half-naked condition, girded with aleathern
apron and wrapped in a kind of blankethelfiyeh). All these'Ethio-.
pians' are Dolichocephali, with orthoguathous skulls, and are remarkable tor their fine and almost Caucasian cast of features, their
very dark, bronze-coloured complexion, and their luxuriant growth
of hair, shading their heads like a cloud, or hanging down in numberless plaits over their necks and shoulders, while in front it is
short and curly. Their figures are beautifully symmetrical, and
more or less slender in accordance with their means of subsistence,
and their limbs are gracefully and delicately formed. In other reSpects they resemble all the other children of the desert, as in the
purity of their complexion, the peculiar thinness of their necks,
and the premature wrinkling of the skin of their faces. Compared with their bold and quarrelsome neighbours the Bisharin, the
Ababdeh, who are armed with a dagger worn in a sheath attached
to the upper part of the left arm, or with a long, straight sword,
but never with a gun, are exceedingly gentle and inoffensive. The
Egyptian government has put an end to the old feuds between the
llisharin and the Ababdeh by entrusting to the latter the superinteudence of the great commercial route through the Nubian desert
(from liorusko to Ahu lJammedl, and by placing the nine tribes of
the Iiisharin under the jurisdiction of the chief shiikh of the Ahabdch, who is personally responsible for the safety ofthe routes through
the desert, and is therefore obliged to reside in the valley of the
Nile. (llis present headquarters are at the small village ofliehfireh,
at the foot of the hill of liedesiyeh, opposite to Edfu.) The total
number of the Ababdeh amounts to about 30,000. The chief
shcilth whose dignity is hereditary, appoints over the principal villages a number ofslili~chiel's, who are appealed to asljudgesiufamily
quarrels which the head of the family has been unable to settle.

The dwellings of the Ahabdeh consist oflow and miserable hovels
« constructed ofstakes covered with ragged straw-mats, and placed in
groups of not more than 3-8 together. They also sometimes live in
eaves, like genuine Troglodytes, although exposed to danger from
snakes. Like the other Boga tribes, they are chiefly occupied as
shepherds and camel-drivers. The wealthier purchase a little sorghum grain, which they eat either raw, or roasted, or in the form of
unleavened cakes, but the poorer seem to haveamarvellouspower of
sustaining life on hommopathically minute quantities ofgoats' milk
and the game which they occasionally capture. The Hisharin nisolive
vxehissivvly on milk and a little meat, while the Arabian Berluins
of the North till the soil to some extent when an opportunity offers. A considerable number of the Ababdeh and llisharin who
live near the coast and possess no cattle or other property, subsist
precariously on the produce of the sea, They are not fishermen, as







4






