Ucd-uins. THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. 47

they possess no boats or other appliances, with the exception of
spears and landing-nets, but merely Uehthyophagi', who pick up
shell--fish, octopoda, orsmall fish thrown up on the beach. Occasionally they make a prize of turtle's eggs, and sometimes succeed in
reaching the sandy islands of the Red Sea where the sea-swallow
(sterna) lays its eggs. This poor mode of life of course has an influence on their mental capacity, which is not of a very high order;
but they are intelligent in their own affairs, and remarkably skilful
trackers, so much so that they are often employed by the government
in pursuing criminals. They are nominally Mohammedans, but
they do not pray, or keep the fast of Ramadan, or make pilgrimages,
except on rare occasions. Nor do they, like orthodox Moham medans,
fear'ginn' and'ghfils', but they permit polygamy, observe the rite
of circumcision, and worship saints.

Besides the Bega, there are numerous Bednins who inhabit the
steppes and deserts belonging to the region of the Nile, but beyond
the limits of Egypt, and range as far as the confines of the heathen
negro-races on the left bank of the Nile, nearly to 9° N. latitude;
but with these we have not atpresent to deal. Among the Arabian
Beduins of the North, there are three important tribes in the peninsula of Mount Sinai: the Ter0bigin, who carry on a brisk caravan
traffic between Suez and Cairo, and claim territorial rights as far as
the banks of the Nile near Basétin above Cairo; the Tihflya, who
occupy the heart of the peninsula, between Suez and'Akaba, and
the Suwdrkeh or El-'Araytsh, to the north of the latter. In Upper
Egypt, besides the Ababdeh, the only lleduius who occupy the
eastern bank of the Nile are the Beni Wa.sel and the Atz'tni, or
Hitwdddl, who. however, have now settled on both banks of the
Theban Nile valley and are gradually blending with the fellahin,
and the Mttriseh (about 3000 in number), who dwell in groups
among the limestone mountains between Suez and Igerreh, where
there are good pastures at places. Most of the Arabian Beduins,
on the other hand, who belong to Egypt, confine themselves to the
western bank of the Nile. They occupy the whole of this side of the
river from the Fayfim as far as Abydus near Girgeh, and it is mainly
with their aid that communication is maintained with the western
oases, peopled by a totally different race (p. 65), who till the ground
and possess no camels, being probably allied to the Barbers of
Northern Africa Cone of the numerous Libyan tribes mentioned
in ancient inscriptions).

The Ileduins of the North have inherited with comparative purity
the fiery blood of the desert tribes, who achieved such marvellous
exploits under the banner of the prophet, but the traveller will
rarely come in contact with them unless he undertakes a journey
across the desert. The loiterers who assist travellers in the ascent
of the pyramids and pester them to buy antiquities, which are
generally spurious, call themselves Beduins, but, even if originally






