'13 THE MODERN EGYPTIAN-5'. Dweller-sin Towns.

of that race, they have entirely lost all its nobler characteristics in
consequence of their intercourse with strangers and their dehasing
occupations. Genuine Beduins are to be found nowhere except in
their desert home, where to a great extent they still retainthe spirit
of independence, the courage, and the restlessness of their ancestors.
As in the time of Herodotus, the tent of the Bcduin is still his
home. Where itis pitched is a matter of indifference to him, if
only the pegs which secure it be firmly driven into the earth, if it
shelter his wife and child from the burning sunshine and the chilly
night air, and if pasturage-ground and a spring be within reach. In
consequence of the frequent wars waged between the different
tribes, every Beduin is a warrior. Most of them, too, as might be
expected, are extremely poor. Thus at Ramleh on the coast, near
Alexandria, the traveller will have an opportunity of seeing awhole
colony of the poorest class eneamped in their tents, where they
live in the most frugal possible manner, with a few miserable goats
and the fowls which subsist on the rubbish in their neighbourhood.
Though profeSSors of El-Islam, they are considerably less strict in
their observances than the fellahiu of the valley of the Nile, who
are themselves sufficiently lax, and above all they sadly neglect
the religious duty of cleanliness. They do not observe the practice
of praying live times a day, and they are as a rule but slightly acquainted with the Koran. Relics of their old star-worship can still
be traced among their customs.

The traveller will occasionally observe lieduins in the bazaars
of the armourers and leather--merchants, and will be struck with
the proud and manly bearing of these bronzed children of the desert,
whose sharp, bearded features and steady gaze hetokon firmness and
resolution. In Egypt the traveller need not fear their predatory
propensities, but they have frequently attacked travellers in Turkish Tripolitania and in the eastern part of Arabia Petrzea.

(4 ]. ArtanIAN DwnLLnRs IN Towns.'l'hose Arabs with whom the
traveller usually comes in contact in towns are shepkecpers, officials,
servants, coachmen, and donkey-attendants, or perhaps these last
only, as most of the best shops are kept by Europeans, while in offlcial and legal matters his intercourse with the natives is carried
on through the medium of his consul. The indolence and duplicity
of these Arabs, which proceed to some extent from the character of
their religion, have often been justly condemned, while theirintelligrence, patience, and amiability are too often ignored. They are
generally of a much more mixed origin than the fellahin, as the various conquerors of Egypt usually made the towns their headquarters. Alexandria, for example, was chiefly favoured by the
(Franks and Arabs, and Cairo by the Arabs and Turks. It thus happens that the citizens of the Egyptian towns consist of persons of
every complexion from dark brown to white, with the features of
the worshippers of Osiris or the sharp profile of the lieduins, and








