50 THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. Barbers.

part of the valley of the Nile, who form the largest foreign element
of the community, and who never entirely assimilate with it, as the
Nubians make it a rule never to marry Egyptian wives. The Nubians, on the other hand, speak slightingly ofthe Egyptians as'Wod-.
er-flif', or sons of the Nile valley (pomp. p. 31). The two races
entertain a great dislike to each other, and their dispositions are
fundamentally different. The Nubians are inferior to the Egyptians
in industry and energy, especially in tilling the soil, and also in
physical strength; and they are more superstitious-and fanatical, as
is indicated by the numerous amulets they wear round their
necks and arms. They are, however, superior to the Egyptians in
cleanliness, honesty, and subordination, and possess a more highly
developed sense of honour. The Nubian doorkeepers who are to
be found in all the mercantile houses of Alexandria and elsewhere
are noted for their honesty. The traveller must not expect to find
them very sincerely attached or grateful, any more than the native
Egyptians (comp. pp. 1?,'35), but as servants they are certainly
preferable. The inhabitants of the Nubian part of the valley of
the Nile are not all strictly Nubians; for in the southern parts
of that region a colony of Shégiyeh and other Arabian tribes has
settled in comparatively recent times. The genuine Nubians (a
name unknown to themselves, and of ancient origin) occupy the
valley of the Nile from Gebel Barkal near the fourth cataract
down to the first cataract, and are divided in accordance with the
principal idioms of their language into Mamie, Kentis, and Don(Colo. Their language belongs to the Libyan group of the N.African
tongues, and Dr. llrugsch is of opinion that it may afford a clue to
the interpretation of the still undeciphered Ethiopian (Mero'itic)
inscriptions of the Nubian part of the Nile valley. Dr. Lepsius,
on the other hand, who has published an admirable work on the
subject, maintains that the'to-bedyawiyeh' language of the Bega
(p. 45) is more likely to be cognate with that of the inscriptions,
as he believes that the Blemmyes, the ancestors of the Boga, were
the original inhabitants ofthe region in question, and were expelled
by the handsome and intelligent'Nuba' negroes from the district to
the S. of Kordofan. Friedrich llliiller places the Nuba tongue in
a separate category along with the dialects of a few other tribes in
different parts of Africa, and there is certainly much to he said in
favour of this distinction of it from the languages of the Hamitic
races on the one side and the typical negro races on the other.
Those Berbers who do not learn Arabic grammatically never speak
it thoroughly well; but itis generally, though imperfectly, understood
in Nubia. The traveller must thereforenot expect to learn good Arabic
from his Nubian servants. In their native country they till the banks
of the Nile, but their land is of very limited extent and poorly cultivated; and as their harvests are scanty they are rarely able to support
large familie They accordingly often emigrate at an early age to the










