Negroes. THE MODERN EGYPTIANS. 51

richer lowlands, chiefly to the large towns, and particularly to Alexandria, in quest of employment; and they find no difficulty in
attaining their object, for they are generally active, intelligent, and
honest, while the older immigrants, who are strongly attached to their
country, are always zealous in procuring them work and rendering
them assistance. When the Berber has succeeded in amassing a
moderate fortune, he returns to settle in his native country, of
which throughout his whole career he never entirely loses sight,
and to which he frequently remits his hardly earned savings for the
benefit of his relations. The cold winter nights in Egypt are very
trying to the poor Barbers, who often have to sleep in the open air
outside the doors, and many of them are attacked by consumption.
They are most commonly employed as doorkeepers (bawwdb), as
house-servants (khaddtm), as grooms and runners (stis), for which
their swiftness renders them unrivalled, as coachmen ('arbagi },
and as cooks {, talabakh). Each of these live classes is admirably organised as a kind of guild, with a shékh of its own, who levies a
tax from each member, and guarantees the character and abilities of
members when hired. Thefts are very rarely committed by the
Nubians, but in cases of the kind the shékh compels the whole of
his subjects to contribute to repair the loss, and cases have been
known in which several hundred pounds have been recovered in
this way. The result is that there is a strict mutual system of
supervision, and suspected characters are unceremoniously excluded
from the fraternity. Nubian women are seldom seen in Egypt.
[ like the Berbers, most of the negroes in Egypt
are professors of El-Islim, to the easily intelligible doctrines of
which they readily and zealously attach themselves. Most of the
older negroes and negresses with whom the traveller meets have
originally been brought to Egypt as slaves, and belong to natives,
by whom they are treated more like members of the family than
like servants. Although every slave who desires to be emancipated
may now with the aid of government sever the ties which bind him
to his master, most of the negroes prefer to remain on the old footing with the family which supports them and relieves them of the
anxiety of providing for themselves. The eunuchs, who also belong
almost exclusively to the negro races, but are rapidly becoming
rarer, very seldom avail themselves of this opportunity of regaining
their liberty, as their emancipation would necessarily terminate the
life of ease and luxury in which they delight. The slave-trade is
now very rapidly approaching complete extinction in Egypt, not so
much owing to the penalties imposed (which the rapacious officials
take every opportunity of enforcing), as from changes in the mode
of living, and the growing preference of the wealthy for paid servants. Down to 1870 the trade was still carried on in secret with
some success, but since then it has been at a standstill. Since
1878 the government has kept a complete register of domestic

4*



