I [ it THE MODERN EGYPT ] ANS. o

) payment of taxes, although they derive the whole of their wealth
from the country.

(9). ARMENIANS AND Jews. This section of the community is
about as numerous as the last, and in some respects contrasts
favourably with it. The Armenians generally possess excellent
abilities, and a singular aptitude for learning both Oriental and
European languages, which they often acquire with great grammatical accuracy. Many of them are wealthy goldsmiths and jewellers, and they often hold important government offices.

The Jews are often distinguishable by their red hair from the
native Egyptians, as well as by other characteristics Most of them
are from Palestine, but many have recently immigrated from Wallachia. All the money-changers in the streets (gur-rfif), and many
of the wealthiest merchants of Egypt, are Jews, and notwithstanding the popular prejudice entertained against them, owing as is
alleged to their disregard of cleanliness, they now form, thanks to
the impartiality of the present government, one of the most highly
respected sections of the community.

(10). Europeans. The number of European residents and
visitors in Egypt at the census of 1882 was 82,000, exclusive of
the British army of occupation. The Greeks are most numerously
represented, then the Italians, French, English (including Maltese),
Austrians (including many Dalmatians), and Germans. The numerous Swiss residents in Egypt, who are not represented by a
consul of their own, are distributed among the above leading classes (French, Italian, German } Beside these nationalities, there
are also a few representatives of Russia, America, Belgium, Scandinavia, and other countries Each of the above leading nationalities shows a preference for one or more particular occupations, in which they sometimes enjoy a complete monopoly. The
Greeks of all classes are generally traders. They constitute the aristocracy of Alexandria, and the victllal-dealers (ba.k.kdl) in all the
other towns are mostly Cheeks. They are the proprietors of the
numerous small banks which lend money on good security, both to
the peasantry and the government officials, at a rate of interest
sometimes amounting to 5 per cent monthly, the maximum permittedby law; and they are the only Europeans who have established
themselves permanently as merchants beyond the confines of Egypt
proper. The Cheeks also have the unenviable notoriety of committing numerous murders, thefts, and other crimes, but it must
be home in mind that they are by far the most numerous section
of the European community (35,000 from Greece alone, besides
many Turkish subjects), and that some 30,000 of them belong to
the lowest class of emigrants from an unhappy and ill-conditioned
country. Many of these crimes must, moreover, be regarded as the
outcome of the sadly misdirected daring and ability which
characterise their nation. The superiority of the Greeks to the






