I

) 5

Course. THE NILE.

The Nile (comp. Map, p. 30). The Nile ranks with the Amazon and the Congo as one of the three longest rivers in the world
(about 4000 U.), since its headstream is probably to be found in
the Shimiju, which rises five degrees to the S. of the Equator.
Throughout nearly the whole of its course the river is navigable,
with two great interruptions only (at Abfi Hammed-Barkal and
Donlrola-Widi Halfa). Though it is greatly surpassed by the Amazon and Congo in volume, neither these nor any other river in the
world can vie in historical and ethnographical interest with the
'father of rivers'.

The discovery of the true sources of the Nile and the cause of
its animal overflow are two Scientific problems which for upwards
of 2000 years European scholars laboured to solve, while the Egyptians themselves regarded the river as a deity, and its origin and
properties as the most sacred of mysteries, to be revealed to the
curious spirit of man only when he should have quitted this earthly
scene. As it is the Egyptian Nile only with which we have at
present to deal, we shall advert but briefly to the subject of the
sources of the river, and mention the principal affluents only which
affect Egypt.

The Nile is formed by the confluence of the White and the Blue
Nile at the town of Khartfrm, from which point to its principal
months at Damietta and Rosetta, a distance of upwards of 1800
miles, it traverses an absolutely barren country and receives one
tributary only, the Atbara, on the east side, about 180 miles below
lihartfim. Throughout the whole of this distance, in the course of
which it falls 1940 ft., the river has to contend against numerous
absorbing influences, for which it receives no compensation beyond
the rare showers attracted in winter by the mountains between
its right bank and the Red Sea. Nothwithstanding the immense
length ofthe river, it very rarely presents the picturesque appearance
of some of the great European and other rivers, as its banks are
generally flat and monotonous, and it contains hardly a single island
worthy of mention. The broadest parts of this portion of the Nile
are a little below Khartfim, a little above its bifurcation near Calm,
and also near Minyeh, at each of which places it attains a width of
about 1100 yds., while the White Nile is of greater breadth throughout
a long part of its lower course As the river pursues its tortuous
course through thirsty land, for a distance of 15 degrees oflatitude,
much ofits water is consumed by evaporation and infiltration (a process by which it is probable that Libyan oases are supplied with
water from the Nubian Nile), and still more so by the extensive
system of artificial canals requisite for the irrigation of a whole
kingdom. M. Linant estimates this loss at the time of the inundation within Egypt proper, Le. between Gebel Selseleh and Cain),
as one-third of the total volume; he found that 1,093,340,922 cubic metres of water passed Gebel Selseleh in'24 hrs., while on the






