50 TH E NILE. Some.'

same day only 705,583,389 cubic metres passed Caimi At the
confluence of the White and Blue Nile their average volumes are
in the proportion of three to one, but the latter assumes far
greater importance when swollen by the Abyssinian rains. The
Blue Nile is in fact a species of mountain-torrent, being liable to
rise suddenly and sweep away everything it encounters on its rapidly descending course. It is therefore called the Ruhr el-Away,
i. e. the blue,'dark', or'turbid', in contradistinction to the Bohr
el-Abyad, 1'. e. the white, or rather the'clear' river, whose water
descends from clear lakes and is farther filtered by the vast grassy
plains and occasional floating plants through which it passes.
The Blue Nile (together with its coadjntor the Atbara) may therefore he regarded as the sole origin of the fertility of Egypt, and also
as the cause of the inundation, while on the other hand the regular
and steady supply of water afforded by the White Nile performs the
very important office of preventing the lower part of the river from
drying up altogether in summon The White Nile is not only much
larger than the Blue in average volume, but is, with its tributaries,
more than double thelength. It does not, however, remain very long
undivided. Higher up, in 9° N. latitude, it receives on the east
side the waters ofthehlobiit, astream descending from the mountains
to the south ofAbyssinia, and rcsemblingthe lllucNile in character,
though much smaller. A little farther up, on the opposite side,
the White Nile is joined by the Bohr el-Ghuzdl, or Gazelle River,
a very sluggish stream, fed by numerous springs rising in the Nyamnyam and Kretly regions, between 3t" and {'10) } latitude. Higher up
the river takes the. name of Ruhr cl--Gebel, and is considerably smaller in volume, and beyond 5 )" N. latitude it ceases to be navigable,
as it descends in a series of rapids from the Albert Ayunza or
Mmmm Luke. This sheet of water is connected by another river,
the'Somerset', which may be regarded as the continuation of the
White Nile, "rename Luke, - while the
Shimiju and other S. feeders of the latter may be called the ultimate sources of the Nile.

The Valley of the Nile from lihartum to the Delta, although
from its great length (15" of latitude) necessarily possessing great
varieties of climate, forms one long unbroken tract of country, the
fertilising soil of which is brought down by the Blue Nile from the
Abyssinian mountains.

The breadth of the Valley of the Nile, including the barren land
immediately flanking it, varies from M ]: to'1" miles in Nubia, and
from 14 to 3'). miles in Egypt. The banks, of which the eastern is
called the'Arabian', and the western the'Libyan', rise at places
to upwards uf from., resembling two large canal embankments,
between which the river has forced its passage through the plateau
of Nubian sandstone' (which extends to the Gebel fielseleh above
hui), and through the nummulite limestone of Upper and Central






