lnxmlutiow THE NILE. 57

Egypt. The breadth of the cultivable alluvial soil corresponds with
the above varying width, but nowhere exceeds o miles. The soil
deposited by the Nile averages 33-38 ft. deep in Egypt, but near
lgalyflb at the head of the Delta it increases to about 50 ft., the
bottom of it being at places below the level of the sea. The bed of
the river is also of considerable depth, and at low water the mudbanks (gef) rise above its surface to a height of 25 ft. in Upper
Egypt, and 14 ft. at Cairo. These are also the depths of the various
irrigation wells.

Throughout the whale © of Egypt the Nile mud rests on a bed of seasand. The whole country between the first cataract and the Mediterranean was formerly a narrow estuary, which was probably filled by
degrees during the pleiocene period with lagoon deposits, washed down
from the crystalline Habesh. At a later period. when Egypt had risen
from the sea Cand after the isthmus had been formed), the river forced
its passage through these deposits of mud, sweeping away many of the
loose particles at one place and depositing them again farther down.
(Frans) The Nile soil is unlike any other in the world in its composition. According to Regnault it contains 63 per cent of water and sand,
18 per cent of carbonate of lime, 9 per cent of quartz, silica. felspar,
hornblende, and epidote, 6 per cent of oxide of iron, and A per cent of
carbonate of magnesia.

Nothing certain is known regarding the average increase of the
alluvial land, all the calculations regarding it having hitherto been
based on erroneous or insufficient data. Thus the Nilometer of
antiquity furnishes the depth relatively to the level of the sea, but
not absolutely. The thickness ofearth accumulated around buildings
of known age has also been found a fallacious guide; and lastly
local measurements lead to no result, as the river often capriciously
washes away what it has deposited in previous years. An approximate calculation might possibly be made if the proportion of solid
matter annually brought down by the river could be ascertained,
but no investigation of this kind has ever been made. It has sometimes been asserted that the desert has begun to encroach upon the
cultivated part of the valley, but Sir G. Wilkinson has shown, that,
while the sand of the desert may he advancing at places, the cultivable bed of the valley is steadily increasing in thickness and width.

The INUNDATION, as is obvious from what has already been
said, is more or less favourable according to the greater or less
amount of rain that falls among the Abyssinian mountains, for
that which falls in Central Africa is a more constant quantity,
being regulated by the influence of the trade-winds. Like the
waterspouts which descend on equatorial Africa, the overflow always recurs at the same season of the year, varying in its advent
by a few days only, and in its depth by several yards. At the beginning of June the river slowly begins to swell, and between the
15th and 20th of July the increase becomes very rapid. Towards
the end of September the water ceases to rise, remaining at the same
height for a fortnight or more, but during the first half of October
it rises again and attains its highest level (comp. p. 939 ]. After



