THE NILE. 59

although its fall from Assnfin (by the first cataract) to Cairo is
299 ft. only, or about seven inches per mile. The rapidity of the
stream, however, which averages 3 miles an hour, is not so serious
an impediment to the navigation as the frequent changes which
take place in the formation of its channel, sometimes occasioning
difficulties which the most careful of captains is unable to foresee.

If we now enquire what influence this remarkable river has
exercised on the history of civilisation, we can hardly avoid the
conclusion that it was the Nile, with its unique character, that
stimulated the ancient Egyptians to those great physical and intellectual exertions which rendered them the most famous and the
most civilised among the nations of antiquity. The necessity of
controlling its course and utilising its water taught them the art of
river-engineering and the kindred science of land--surveying, while
in the starry heavens they beheld the eternal calendar which regulated the approach and the departure of the inundation, so that the
river may perhaps have given the first impulse to the study of
astronomy. As the annual overflow of the water obliterated all landmarks, it was necessary annually to measure the land anew, and to
keep a register of the area belonging to each proprietor; and above
all it became an important duty of the rulers of the people to impress them with a strong sense of the sacredness of property. Every
succeeding year, however, there arose new disputes, and these
showed the necessity of establishing settled laws and enforcing
judicial decisions. The Nile thus led to the foundation of social,
legal, and political order, and it is also natural that the mighty and
mysterious river on which the welfare of the entire population depended should have awakened their religious sentiment at a very
early period. Subsequently, when the engineers and architects, in
the service of the state or in the cause of religion, erected those
colossal structures with which we are about to become acquainted,
it was the Nile which materially facilitated the transport of their
materials, and enabled the builders of the pyramids and the other
ancient Egyptians to employ the granite ofAssuén for the structures
of Memphis, and even for those of Tanis, on the coast of the Mediterranean As the river, moreover, not only afforded a convenient
route for the transport of these building materials, but also an admirable commercial highway, we find that the Egyptians had acquired
considerable skill at a very early period in constructing vessels
with oars, masts, sails, and even cabins and other appliances.

From the earliest historical period down to the present time the
course of the Nile, from the cataracts down to its bifurcation to the north
ofCnirottlse ancicutKerkasruros, i. e. the mutilation of Osiris). has undergone very little change. This, however, is not the case with its FIMB0UciiU1tEsifor, while ancient writers mention seven (the Pelusiac, the
Tanitic, the Mendesian, the Buculic or Phatnitic, the Sebennytic, the
Bolhitinie, and the Carwpic0, there are now practically two channels only
through which the river is discharged into the sea. These are the
months at Rosetta (Dumyfit), situated "cut the













