ti" GEOLOGICAL NOTICE. I

middle of the Delta, while the l'clusiac and Canopic months, the most
important in ancient times, lay at the extreme east and west ends of
the coast respectively. The water was afterwards gradually compelled
to seek other outlets. The l'elusiac arm found a convenient exit through
the l'hatnitic near Damietta, while the Canopic was artificially conducted
into the ltolbitinic. All the principal arms of ancient times at length entirely disappeared, combining to form the modern outlets. These last
will in their turn be abandoned, as the river will doubtless again force
for itself a more direct passage with a greater fall.

Geological Notice (by Prof. Zittel). (i) EGYPT PROPER. There is no
exaggeration in the often repeated saying that Egypt is the gift of the
Nile'. But for the bounties dispensed by the river, what is now the most
fertile country in N. Africa would he a wilderness of bare rock or sand.
With the greatest height attained by the inundation and the extreme
length of the irrigation canals corresponds precisely the line which divides the Sahara from the cultivated land. The whole of the alluvial
soil deposited by the Nile is an entirely foreign element in the geological structure of N. Africa, and its geological character is uniform and
easily determined.

The origin. composition. and thickness of the alluvium has already
been stated. The perpendicular. black, and furrowed mud-hanks. which
often rise to a height of 25-35 t't, \ are composed of distinct parallel strata
of somewhat ditTerent eolmtrs, with thin layers of sand occasionally intervening. In Lower Egypt the mud is rather more thinly spread over
the whole Delta, in the form of a blackish or reddish-brown laminated
mass. a few isolated spots only remaining uncovered,

Wherever the ground is denuded of its alluvium. apart from which
there is no permanent soil in Egypt. it is absolutely sterile; for in this
hot and dry country there is no winter. with its protecting mantle of
snow. to retard the decomposition of vegetable matter. and to promote
its admixture with disintegrated rock, so as to form fertile soil. Owing
to the want of vegetation and moisture, without which the progress of
disintegration is reduced to a minimum, the surface of the naked rock
in Egypt and the neighbouring deserts retains its character almost. um
altered. The huge masses of debris observed at the foot of the rocks in
the valley of the Nile, and particularly at the mouths of the wadies. and
the curious isolated hills with which every traveller through the desert
is struck, could not possibly have been formed during the preSent state
of the Egyptian climate. They prove that at some pro-historic period
the now parched and sterile ground must have been ovcrtlowed by co.
pious volumes of water which produced these and various other ctl'ects
Im the appearance of the earth's surface.

The geologist will find little to attract his attention in the alluvial
soil of Egypt; but on the Sea-coast, and in that part of the isthmus which
is intersected by the canal. there are several points of interest.

On entering the harbour of Alexandria the traveller will observe the
massive blot-k9 of stone from the quarries of) leks of which the quayn
are constructed. They consist, of recent tertiary, light-coloured, sandy
limestone. composed chiefly of innumerable broken fragments of conchylia, a kind of rock which extends far to the w. of Alexandria, and
probably constitutes the greater part of the lofty t1yrenman plain. This
rock forms the building-stone generally used at Alexandria, and is also
employed in the harbour-structures of Port Ha'id,

Amidst the desert sand of the isthmus, which even in Lower Egypt
forms a substratum underlying the Nile mud, and which in the E. partof
the desert is nearly covered with a solid gypseous and saline crust, the
rock occasionally crops up. or has been uncovered in the course of the
excavation of the canal. Near the Shahif station (p. 1312i a greenish-grey,
gypseous mar ] overlies the solid limestone, which contains the tertiary
sharks' teeth, and remains of crocodiles and amphibious mammalia. The same formation occurs in other places also,
and ridges of the early tertiary nummulite limestone likewise occasionally






