This barrier extends eastwards for about 130 miles, forming a very irregular chain of barren hills 900-1300 ft. in height.

The Nile has forced a passage for itself through this hard rock, exposing to view at places the beautiful red felspar crystals which it contains, and forms a wild cam tat Ass an. Near the cataracts are the
deserted quarries of the ancient Egyptians, where to this day we still
observe a number of unfinished gigantic obelisks, and columns half hewn
out of the solid rock.

('2) THE ARABIAN DESERT. Parallel with the coast of the Red Sea, a
broad and massive range of mountains, consisting of crystalline rocks
(granite, syenite, diorite, porphyry, hornblende slate. gneiss, mica-Mat
U": L runs through the Arabian Desert, sending forth numerous rami
cation: into the interior of the country. At Hammfimit, on the caravanroutc from lfosér to Thebes, we pass the quarries whence the darkcoloured stone (aphanite, diorite, and Verde orient) used for the ancient
sarcophagi and sphinxes was obtained by the Egyptian sculptors. Near
the Red Sea, almost opposite the southern extremity of the peninsula of
Sinai, rises the Gebel Dukhan, which yielded the beautiful red porphyry
[ porlido rosso ] so highly prized by the Greeks and Romans at a later
period, and used by them for vases, columns, sarcophagi, busts, and
mosaics. The granite quarries of the Gebel Fatireh yielded both building
stone and copper. Most celebrated of all, however, were the emerald mines
of the Gebcl Zebfira, situated on the Red Sea in the latitude of Selseleh.

This extensive range of mountains of crystalline formation, rising to
a height of UGUU it, of which those of the peninsula of Sinai form a
counterpart, terminates towards the east in roof-shaped. stratified formations. At lirst there occurs a considerable stratum of Nubian sandstone,
next to which we find a series of clayey and calcareous strata, identified
by Figari-ch with the Triassic and Jura formations, probably erroneously, as the collection of specimens of the rock at lorence shows that
apparently the chalk alone is completely developed. These strata are
succeeded by extensive masses of limestone, belonging to the nummulite
formation, and stretching to the Nile. Among these last formations is
found the pale yellow, brownish, and snow-white alabaster, a kind of
limestone composed of nodulous masses, which was formerly quarried at
the ancient Alabastron near Sin!" and still occurs on the Gebel Urakam
near Beni-SuC-f. In the reign of Mehammed'Ali this alabaster was largely
used in the construction of his alabaster mosque (p. 263), and it was extensively exported in ancient times for the embellishment of buildings
and for sculptural purposes. Blocks of it are even found among the
ruins of the Oasis of Ammon.

Those extensive mountains, with their numerous profound ravines
and boldly shaped masses of rock, impart a most imposing character to
the Arabian Desert. This region is by no means so destitute of vegetation as is usually supposed; for, although without oases, it contains,
particularly in the N. part. a number of springs and natural cisterns,
which are filled by (5). Till-l LIBYAN DESERT. This region again presents an entirely different character. It consists of an immense, monotonous. and stony tableland, (5130400011. above the level of the Nile, extending between the Nile
and the eases of Kluirgeh, Dfikhel, Farafra, and Bahriyeh. Throughout
this vast area there occur neither mountains, nor valleys, nor even isolated hills of any considerable height; and there is no trace of crystalline or volcanic formations. The surface of the desert rises in gradations,
each preceded by a broad girdle of isolated mounds, which have been
obviously formed by erosion, the materials having been washed down
from the adjoining plateau. The whole of this stony and absolutely unwatered plain, the monotony of which is only varied by a few solitary
ranges of sand-hills, consists of nummulite limestone. In the direction
of the 03.363 it descends in precipitous slopes, furrowed with numerous
ravines, and occasionally nearly 1000 ft. in height. The different strata
of the earlier nummulite formation, as well as those of the upper chalk,
are here exposed to view, and generally contain numerous fossils. The l

62 GEOLOGICAL NOTICE.



