"

II'he oases always lie at a considerably lower level than the stony
plateau of the desert, them in picturesque rocky precipices, and the oasis of Siwa is about 78 it. below the sea-level. The
Hat surfaces of these depressions do not always form a single
cultivated area, but consist, even in the case of the smallest oases like
Farfifra, of a number of comparatively small parcels of cultivable soil,
separated by belts of sterile ground. One of the large oases, like that
of Khargch, when surveyed from the neighbouring heights, presents the
appearance of a large expanse of desert, decked with isolated spots of
light and dark green, the former being fields of corn and other crops.
and the latter palm-groves. These 111111111 of vegetation, the extent of
which depends on the copiousness of the springs in their midst and the
amount of care used in the distribution of the water, have often since
the time of Strabo been not inaptly compared to the spots on a panther's skin, but the simile applies to the oases individually, and not to
those of the Libyan desert as a whole, as they are but few in number
and very far apart.

As already observed, these Libyan oases owe their fertility to the
copiousness of their water supply. lnexhaustible subterranean channels,
or an immense reservoir, perhaps common to all the oases, are believed
to connect them with the Nub art Nile, or possibly with the _ id 11-, and
of this supply it is probable that a very limited portion only comes to
the surface in the form of springs. Within the last thirty 1-L11-1 11.11.111F, a well-digger from the valley of the Nile, and formerly servant
to a French engineer, has sunk about sixty new wells in the oasis of
Uzikhel, some of which, though close to older wells. do not seem to diminish the cupiousness of the latter. With the aid of this additional
supply a large area of sterile soil 1111 been brought under cultivation, and
it is therefore probable that by means of Artesian wells, such as those
sunk by the French in the Algerien oases, the extent of the cultivable soil
might still be largely increased. The high temperature of the water,
both in the natural springs and in the wells, shows that it comes from
a great depth; and it is strongly impregnated with mineral ingredients,
as in the case of the bath-springs of Kasr Dakhc ] and Bahriyeh (07° FahrJ,
and the beautiful sun-spring CAin 1Jiunmiim) at 311111 (85°), the curative
properties of which, owing to their remote situation, are seldom utilised.
At Bahriyeh the stratum from which the water more immediately bursts
forth seems to lie at no great depth below the surface of the soil. The
thermal waters of Daikhel contain iron, and, like those of Fa ifra and
Khargeh, are not unpleasant to drink when cooled; but the water of
Siwa is brackish and nauseous to the taste The wells are generally
very deep (9052011. and upwards), and in ancient times the inhabitants
of the oases, as we are informed by Olympiodorus, were celebrated for
their skill in sinking them. The invasion of the Arabs, however, was succeeded by several centuries of barbarism, during which the art of boring
wells was well nigh forgotten; many wells were filled up, and extensive
tracts of cultivated land, still traceable by the 11111111 11111 of the fields,
were abandoned; but, as above mentioned, the practice is beginning to be
revived The considerable force with which the water comes up from
its profound reservoirs enables the inhabitants to construct wells or artificial dams on the highest parts of the oases. The fields are always
arranged in terraces of picturesque appearance, over which the fertilising element is conducted downwards in succession, so that the laborious
system of sibiyehs and shaddfs used in the valley of the Nile is dispensed
with. Among the southern oases, on the other hand, we frequently observe extensive water-conduits, carried by artificial embankment, to long
distances for the purpose of conveying the precious liquid over sterile salt ground to good soil, or necessitated by the requirements 1f the
curiously involved rights of property, These conduits nut unfrequently
ernss each other at different levels. The springs are generally the property of the communities, rarely that of wealthy individuals; and it is
in proportion to their number, and that of the date-palms, that the inhabitants have to pay taxes, while the soil itself is nominally free.






