THE OASES. 65



Where the springs are common property, the periodical distribution of
the water has from time immemorial formed the subject of statutory regulations. The cultivable land consists of open fields and of gardens,
which are carefully enclosed with earthen walls abouttift. high, crowned
with twisted palm-leaves, for the purpose of keeping out intruders, or are
more rarely hedged in with branches of the shut or other thorny plant.

In the oases, as in the valley of the Nile, a regular rotation of winter and summer crops is observed (comp. p. 72), although, with their
uniform supply of water, there is not the same necessity for it. The
winter erupt: are wheat and barley; those of summer are rice, dura
(Sorghum vulgare), and a small proportion of dukhn (Pemicitlaritt spicuta),
while in dehel and Khdrgeh indigo is grown in considerahle quantities.
Cotton is also cultivated to a small extent, but the yield is hardly adequate for even the local requirements. By far the most important fruit
yielded by the gardens is that of the date-palm. The delicious dates
are very superior to those of the Nile valley, and they form. particularly
at Dakhel and aims, the only important article of export. Olive-trees
also occur in all the oases, especially in Ir' fut, Bahriyeh, and Siwa,
where they yield a considerable quantity of oil, besides which there are
apricots, oranges, lemons, and melting, but very few other fruit trees.
The ordinary vegetables grown in the valley of the Nile, such as lettuces,
eahhages. and lgultgas, are never met with; nor have the recently introduced sugar--cane and the beautiful lehhek acacia tp. 76) yet found
their way to the oases. The venerable sunt-trees (p. 77 ] form a very
characteristic feature of the southern oases. They generally shade the
wells. or the sites of old wells now tilled up owing to neglect, and they
indicate the course of the water'conduits to the still distant traveller.

The most prominent of the indigenous plants of the oases is the roshr
(Colon-opts profit-u). which is also common on the banks of the Nile in
Upper Egypt. It is a broad-leaved shruh or small tree, attaining a height
of 6 ft. or more, with a copious milky and very poisonous sap, and round
fruit of the size of a large apple containing woolly seeds, and known on
the banks of the Dead Sea as the'apple ei shatter.

The indigenous animals of the oases are much fewer in number than
those of the valley of the Nile. The only large mammal that occurs is
the gazelle, which is also found in the sterile parts of the Libyan desert.
The only beasts of prey are several varieties of jackals (Arab. (lib) and
foxes (Arab. ta'teb). Among the latter is the pretty fenek, which is only
halt the size of the European fox, yellowish-grey in colour, and with
ears longer than the breadth of the head. Hyenas seem to be unknown,
except in Bahriyeh. The timid ostrich rarely visits the Libyan oases.

The domestic animals kept by the inhabitants of the oases consist of
a few horses, numerous donkeys of a small and weakly type, which will
not hear comparison with their strong and active eongeners ofAlexandria
and Cairo, and a few oxen, sheep, and goats. Buffaloes are also kept in
Khargeh and a few in Bahriyeh. It is surprising how few camels are to
he found in the oases, but it is said that the bite of a certain tly endangers their lives in summer. Turkeys and fowls are plentiful.

The population of the oases is not of a uniform character. According
to Brugsch. the original inhabitants were Libyan tor Ber-her) tribes, but
after the oases were annexed to Egypt many new settlers were introduced
from the valley of the Nile and from Nubia. The Berber nationality of
the inhabitants of the oasis of Ammon, notwithstanding its having been
connected with Egypt for several thousand years and its reception of
immigrants from the west in the middle ages, is still very marked, while
the population of the other oases, like that of the Nile valley, has
adopted the Arabic language. In Bahriyeh (where, besides the natives of
the place, there is a colony of Siwanese who still speak the Berber dialect) and Farifra the physiognomic type of the Berber race still predominates; type, while in Siwa, through which
the great caravan route from Alexandria and Cairn via Mu ak to the
Siidiin leads, and in Khirgeh, which lies on the route tu I Fir, the

BAEDEKER's Egypt 1. 2nd Ed. 5



