66 THE o.



admixture of negro blood imparts its unmistakable stalnp to the features
of the inhabitants. There are no Coptic settlers in the oases, but they
are sometimes temporarily met with there in the capacity of merchants
or government clerks; and Europeans are still more rarely encountered.
The population of the oases is comparatively small 11 (1111-ge11, according
to Schweinfurth, possessing 6310 souls; according to Iluhifs, dehel
17,000, 320 111 rty eh abnul 6000. and M'w 0600), and the narrow
limit: of the cultivable soil prevents it from increasing; but. a more
auspicious era may now be in store for these isolated communities if
they follow the example set by the inhabitants of 115mm by sinking
fresh wells and thus extending their territory. As a rule, even in the
most favourably circumstanced oasis of lla'tkhel, the physique of the
population is poor and stunted, owing partly to their almost exclusive
vegetable diet (of which Prof. Virchow has found evidence in the condition
of the teeth of skulls from the ancient tnmlts ofDfikhelj, and partly to the
unhealthiness of the climate. 111a early 111 1111 111 11111, and also during the domination
of the Roman emperors, the oases were generally used as places of
banishment, partly because their isolation rendered escape well nigh impossible, and partly perhaps because the climate was expected to aggravate the misery of the exiles. The overplus of the water used for agricultural purposes forms a series of marshes. ponds, and lakes on the saline soil, and these last contribute greatly to the picturesqueness of the
landscape in Siwa, which is farther enhanced by a number of isolated
rocky heights, but the "these watery tracts in summer
are very unhealthy. Within the last few centuries this am 1111.1 been
aggravated by neglect. and the artificial swamps required for the rice
cultivation are fraught with additional danger. Some measure for utilising the superfluous water, or at least rendering it harmless, is perhaps
more urgently needed for the well-heing of the oases than an increase
of the water 11111111 11111111 present circumstances Europeans had better
abstain from visiting the oases from the beginning of April till the end
of November, but in the winter months they may visit them safely.
With regard to the construction of the dwellings in the oases it may
be remarked that they all have more or less the character of too-m
houses. as, even at the present day. the unsafe state of the country requires
them to he strongly built in close proximity to each other. Instead of the
low hovels of the Nile valley. we therefore find in all the 11.1111 11111111111
"several stories in height. somewhat rudely built of mud (and sometimes of stone, as at Bahriyeh) and palm logs. A curious feature ofthese
towns (recurring in the other oases of the 1511111111 11111., as, for example,
in the famous commercial town of Ghadames, to the SAY. of Tripoli)
is the covered streets running under the upper stories of the houses,
and sometimes of such length as to be perfectly dark. AS, moreover,
like most Oriental streets. they are generally crooked, it is hardly
prudent for a stranger in venture into them without a guide. The main
street of the town of Siwa winds in this manner up the rocky eminence
on which the houses are built. and the place is indeed in this respect
< 1.

one of the most curious in the East.

As is usually the case with places lying at a distance from the outer
world, the government of these communities is in the hands of the must
respectable and wealthy memhers, and at Far?'ra this paternal oligarchy
is under the control of no government, Even at Siwu the Nudtr appointed
by the Egyptian goverment timis it difficult to assert his authority, and
it is only the interminable and sometimes bloody quarrels of the leading
parties of the Lit'dyeh and the Gharhin tuf whum the latter, as the name
indicates, are immigrants from the west) that afford him an opportunity
of interposing in his judicial capacity. In the other oases also, down to
the middle of the present century, the power of the government officials
was always to a great extent paralysed by that of the obstinate shékhs;
but after the repression of the lieduiu revolt Sa'id Pasha succeeded
in firmly establishing the viceregul authority in the oases also. Since
that period peace has reigned throughout the oases, and as the pressure






