Rain. CLIMATE. 67

of taxation is not nearly so heavily felt here as in the valley of the
Nile the inhabitants are comparatively wealthy. Of late years, however, they have occasionally suffered from the predatory attacks of
nomadic marauders from the Cyrenaica, and even by the Arabs of the Nile
valley. A new disturbing element, too, has unfortunately sprung up
within the last ten years in Siwa, Bahriyeh, and Farafra. in the establishment and rapid spread of the Semisi order of Mohammedans, by whom
the introduction of all Christian culture is bitterly opposed. This religious order was founded about the middle of the present century by
Sidi Snlisi (or Sendsi, as the name is pronounced in Eastern Africa. where
the vowels are more distinctly pronounced than by the Moghrebhius of
Algeria and Morocco), a talib (or scripture scholar) of Tlemsen in Algeria, for the purpose of restoring the observance of Islam to its original purity, and, above all, of warring against Christianity. Although the
members of the order are regarded by other Mohammedan sects as Khoms,
or heretics, they have rapidly acquired great power in the districts surrounding the eastern Sahara, and, like the Jesuits in Christian countries
have amassed considerable wealth, their principal treasury being at
brih, the chief seat of the order. two days' journey to the W. of Siwa.
Sarabfib is also the residence of Sidi-Mahdi. the general of the order and
son of its founder, who has succeeded in obtaining certain privileges
from the Sultan of Turkey. At Siwa he has established a richly outlawed
a yen, or school of religion; "F. m the E eh is all-powerful,
having within the ten years of its existence bought up a considerable
part of the landed property there; and at Bahriyeh the order 11 t.'Mu" .ceeded in inonopolising the schools, so that the rising generation may he
expected to succumb to their influence. The hostility of this new sect
to all modern culture is obviously a serious obstacle to the progress
which the Egyptian government is now anxious to promote.

Climate. The climate of Egypt is to some extent influenced by
the great artery on which the country's life depends, but the desert
may be regarded as its chief regulator. But for the immense absorbing power of the desert the winter rains of the Mediterranean
regions would extend far up the Nile valley; and, but for its proximity, the great expanse of nearly stagnant water at the mouths of
the Nile, covering an area of upwards of 2500 sq. M., would render
the Delta one of the most unhealthy and uninhabitable regions in
the world. The air of the desert is pleasantly cool, and possesses
the most refreshing and health-giving qualities; indeed, to borrow
Bayard Taylor's expression, it is a true'elixir at like, To the delicious purity of the airt of the desert a kind of parallel is afforded
by the excellence of the water of the life-giving Nile.

RAIN, throughout a great part of Egypt proper, is a very rare
phenomenon At Cairo the fogs of winter are rarely condensed into
showers of any duration, and the rain occasionally blown inland
from the sea seldom lasts long. Observations carried on at Cairo
for five years show a mean annual rainfall of only 11/2 inch, while
the mean at Alexandria for a period of fourteen years was 8 inches.
The unusual frequency of rain during the last few years has been
absurdly attributed to the great increase of the area planted with
, It may he noticed here that the air is largely impregnated with
saline particles from the limestone rocks of the desert, and it is chiefly
to their presence that the beneficial effect of the air on the respiratory
organs is supposed to be due.

0*



