63 CLIMATE.



trees, a boon which the country owes to the government of the khcdive Tsmaril, The winters of these same years were also unusually
wet in Greece and other regions adjoining the Mediterranean where
but little rain generally falls, so that the weather of these exceptional seasons was doubtless affected by unknown climatic influences extending far beyond the limits of Egypt. The recent formation of the extensive Hitter Lakes in the isthmus of Suez has
also no influence on the climate except in their own immediate
neighbourhood. If the banks of the lied Sea still remain desert in
spite of the huge evaporating surface. beside them, what change
of importance could be expected from the artificial creation of a
few square miles of water? The whole of the base of the Delta
lies within the region of the winter rains, which from January to
April are blown inland by the then prevailing sea-breezes to a
distance of 30-50 English miles. in Upper Egypt, on the other
hand, rain is almost unknown, and it is not uncommon to meet
with adult natives who have never seen a single shower. In that
part of the country a tlmnder-shower, or perhaps the extreme fringe
of the tropical rains, falls at rare intervals in April or May to the
no small wonder of the natives. These showers are more frequent
above the first cataract, and they recur regularly a little to the N.
of New Donhola 01" V. latfi), while to the H. of Shendi
there is annually a short wet season. with its concomitants of malaria
and fever. The rainfall in the deserts on each side of the Nile is very
unequally distributed, but of these regions also it is approximately
true that rain is of very partial and sporadic occurrence. Thus there
are vast tracts of the Libyan desert which for years together derive
their sole moisture from the damp north and north-westerly winds,
and when the wind is in any other quarter they are even deprived
of their nightly refreshment of dew. (in the Arabian side the case
is materially different. There, along the coast of the Red Sea, runs
a range of mountains 4800-10,0Ll0 ft. in height, where occasional,
but very violent showers fall between October and December, hollowing out the deep valleys which descend to the Nile. Although
these desert rains are of too short duration permanently to affect
the character of the country. their fertilising effect on the light and
loose soil is far greater than if they had to penetrate a heavier soil
covered with thick vegetation.

As the year is divided in the valley of the Nile by the rise
and fall of the river into two well-defined seasons, one when the
soil is moist and easily cultivated, and the other when nothing
will grow without artificial irrigation, so also it may be divided
in accordance with the prevalent WINDS into two different periods
of eight and of four months. North winds prevail as a rule from
the middle of June to the middle of February, and south ($ .15.
and SAV.) during the rest of the year (while in the lied Sea the
prevalent winds at these seasons are almost exactly in the reverse










