temperature. CLIMATE. (). Early in the afternoon of a day during the second of
these seasons the wind, as is the case in all tropical regions, sometimes rises to a hurricane, in which case it is called a'Samfim'.
Of this wind there are two or three different varieties: U) It is
called a'Shobeh' when it blows chiefly from the east, and ['27) a
'Merisi' when it comes directly from the south. In the latter case
it is also sometimes called a'Khamsin', but this name more properly
applies to the very hot, dry, and dust-laden winds which frequently
blow unremittingly for one or two whole days together, and render
the climate peculiarly trying in March and April (comp. p.'27.

The name Khamasin, as it is more correctly written, is the plural
of I0amsiu, signifying ditty" and is applied to these winds in consequence of the fact that they prevail only during a period of my days
before the summer solstice, after which they invariably cease. The Arabs
confine this name to the period, and name the Winds themselves share.
The wind to which the name is applied in winter afi'ords but a feeble idea
of the Khamsin of the hotter season, which forms the only disagreeable
feature of the Egyptian climate, and one from which there is no escape.
The impalpable sand finds its way into the most carefully closed rooms,
boxes, and even watches, and the parching heat is most destructive to
the blossoms of fruit-trees.

In accordance with the TEMPERATURE the Egyptian year may
also be divided into two seasonal, a period of hot weather, lasting
eight months (April to November), and a cool season of four months
(December to March). Throughout the whole country the heat
gradually increases from April till the middle or end of June, and
many of the superstitious natives believe that a perceptible freshening of the air takes place on the night of the'dropping' (17th
June; see p. 939). In Alexandria the blowing of the N. N.W. wind
sometimes interrupts the regular increase of the heat, so that the
maximum may be reached as early as May or June or may be postponed to September or October. The maximum heat in the Delta
is about 050 Fahr. in the shade, in Upper Egypt about 1001 At
Cairo the thermometer sometimes rises as high as 114° during the
prevalence of the Khamsin. In December, January, and February
the temperature is at its lowest, falling in the Delta to 35°, in Alexandria to 40", and in Upper Egypt to 41°. The quicksilver rarely
sinks to the freezing--point, except in the desert and at night. On
16th Feb. 1874, during Rohlfs' expedition in the Libyan desert,
the thermometer fell to'3: °. About sunrise the traveller will sometimes find a thin coating of ice in his basin, or on neighbouring
pools of water, where, owing to the rapid evaporation, the temperature falls several degrees lower than in the surrounding air. As
a rule, throughout the whole country, and at every season, the temperature is highest from 1 to 5 p.m., and lowest during the two
hours before sunrise. The result of the observations often years has
been that the mean temperature in the Delta and at Cairo is 58° Fahr.
in winter, 78° in spring, 83" in summer, and 66° in autumn. 1U.
l'irona's observations, carried on for fourteen years, fix the mean
temperature on the coast near Alexandria at 60° in winter, 66" in












