T

Irrigation. AGRICULTURE. 71

the late summer or early autumn of the European year. The land
is extremely fertile, but it is not so incapable of exhaustion as it is
sometimes represented to be. Many of the crops, as elsewhere, must
occasionally be followed by a fallow period; others thrive only when
a certain rotation is observed (such as wheat, followed by clover and
beans); and some fields require to be artificially manured. Occasionally two crops are yielded by the same field in the same season
(wheat and saffron, wheat and clover, eta). The recent great
extension of the cultivation of the sugar-cane, which requires a
great deal of moisture, and of the cotton--plant, which requires
extremely little, has necessitated considerable modifications in the
modes of irrigation and cultivation hitherto in use. As both of these
crops are of a very exhausting character, the land must either be
more frequently left fallow. or must be. artificially manured. The
industry and powers of endurance of the Egyptian peasantry are
thus most severely tried, and no imported agricultural labourers
could ever hope to compete with them, as has sometimes been
thought possible. Although the homogeneous soil of the valley of
the Nile breaks up ofits own accord after its irrigation, and requires
less careful tilling and ploughing than ours, it (warts more uniform attention throughout the whole year, while its irrigation
involves a great additional amount of labour to which the European
farmer is quite unaccustomed. The increasing use of artificial
manures7 which were formerly but little known, is another source
of great labour. As the country is thickly peopled and supports
numerous cattle, there ought to he no lack of natural manure; but,
as the dung of the domestic animals is used as fuel throughout
Egypt, where wood is very scarce, that of pigeons (p. 79. ] is almost
the only kind available for agricultural purposes. An abundant
source of manure is afforded by the ruins of ancient towns, which
were once built ot'unbaked clay, but now consist of mounds of earth,
recognisable only as masses of ruins by the fragments of pottery they
contain. Out of these mounds, which conceal the rubbish of thousands of years, is dug a kind of earth sometimes containing as much
as 1?. per cent of saltpetre, soda, ammonia, and other Salts. This
manure possesses extremely fertilising properties, but ifused at the
wrong time or place is very injurious to the soil.

1 ]. IRRIGATION. The whole of the cultivable soil of Egypt is
divided into two classes in accordance with its relative height
above the surface of the Nile: Ct) The, mi', or fields which retain
their moisture after the subsidence of the overflow long enough for
nearly long enough) to admit of the ripening of the crop without
additional irrigation; (2) The'Slmrfiicz", or those which always
require artificial irrigation. The irrigation is effected by means of:
(It) The'S'filgiyeh', or large wheels (rarely exceeding 30 ft. in diameter), turned by domestic animals of various kinds, and fitted with
scoops of wood or clay, resembling a dredging-machine. (In the








