72 AGRICULTURE. Agricultural Seasom.

Faydm a peculiar kind of water-wheel is in use, so contrived as to
be turned by the weight of the water.) According to Figari-lley,
the number of sakiyehs used in Central and Lower Egypt in 1864
was about 50,000, which were turned and superintended by 200,000
men and 100,000 persons, and which irrigated 1500,000 acres of
land. (2) The'SlIIMIU", an apparatus resembling that of an ordinary
well, set in motion by one person only, and drawing the water in
buckets resembling baskets in appearance: as a substitute for the
sakiyeh several s, are sometimes arranged one above the other.
til) When it is possible to store the water in reservoirs above the
level of the land to be watered, it is allowed to overflow the fields
whenever required. This is the only method available in the oases,
where fortunately the water rises from the springs with such force
as to admit of its being easily dammed up at a sufficiently high
level. (4) Pumps driven by steam are also used, particularly when
a large supply of water is required, as in the ease of the sugarplantations en the'Clefs' of the Nile in Northern Egypt, where they
are seen in great numbers. (5) Lastly the'U'Mdt', a peculiar, very
light, and easily moved wooden wheel, which raises the water by
means of numerous fans. is used in the Lower Delta only and in
places where the level of the water in the canals remains nearly
the same. In order to distribute the water equally over flat fields,
they are sometimes divided into a number of small squares by means
of embankments of earth, 1 ft. in height, which, owing to the great
plasticity of the Nile mud, are easily opened or closed so as to
regulate the height of the water within them.

Jlefore describing the different Egyptian agricultural seasons,
we must first observe that they are no longer so sharply defined as
they probably were in ancient times. Besides the old crops, there
are now several others of recent introduction, and so extensively
grown as in some measure to revolutionise the modes of cultivation.
These are maize, rice, the sugar-cane, cotton, ramieh, and indigo.
(This last plant was known to Pliny, but it was probably grown in
his time only to a very limited extent ] The agrarian measures of
the Egyptian government are all directed towards the emancipation
of farming from its dependence upon the. inundations. in order that
every ere ]: may be cultivated at the season in which it thrives
best. The embankments and various apparatus for the regulation
of the water supply. recently constructed or founded by the government, vie in importance with the greatest ancient works of the kind.

lll. Aomcrm'trtar. Snasoxs. (l) The. Winter Crop, ", grown exclusively on the'Wai' land (p. 71 ], is sown
immediately after the. subsidence of the inundation, which takes
place progressively from S. to N. In Lpper Egypt seed-time accordingly begins as early as the middle ofUctober, in Central Egypt
[ from Sidt to Cairo) at the beginning of November, and in the
Delta about the end of [ Member [ ho ground is seldom prepared
















