Agricultural Seasons. AGRICULTURE. 73

for sowing by the use of the plough. The seed is scattered over the
still soft and moist soil, and is then either pressed into it by means
of a wooden roller, beaten into it with pieces of wood, or trodden
in by oxen i. Throughout the whole country a period of four
months elapses between seed-time and the completion of the harvest. The winter harvest is, therefore, over in Upper Egypt about the
middle of February, in Central Egypt about the middle of March
and in the Delta towards the end of April. In Upper and Central
Egypt this is the most important harvest of the whole year. The
principal crop everywhere is wheat (occupying 50 0/0 of the fields
in Upper Egypt and 30 0/0 in the Delta), next to which are barley
(in the proportion of 10 0/0 and 1-1 0/0 in these regions respectively),
clover (100/0 and 2-1 0/0 respectively), and broad beans (20 0/0 and
120/0 respectively).

(2) The Summer Crops ('h" p-estf' or'Er-rfh.lr) are much more
varied than those of winter, but they are comparatively unimportant
in Upper and Central Egypt, as the cultivable land in these regions
is very narrow, and belongs chiefly to the'ltai' category, two-thirds
of it being under water during summer. In the Delta, on the other
hand, summer is the farmer's most important season. The vegetation with which its whole surface is densely clothed in June and
July is marvellously rich and beautiful, thousands of magnificent
trees clustered in groups afford delightful shelter from the fierce
rays of the sun, and the eye ranges over an immense expanse teeming with luxuriant crops. Another charm of the country in summer
consists in its abundantly stocked gardens and orchards: but of all
these attractions the traveller who, like a bird of passage, merely
seeks refuge in Egypt from the cold and rains of a northern winter
cannot possibly form any adequate idea. At this season every dis
, The AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS of the Egyptians are c
primitive and detective The chief of these is the plough (Milo-tit), the
form of which is precisely the same as it was 5000 years ago; and the
traveller will recognise it on many of the monuments and in the system
of hieroglyphic. lt consists of a pole about (Ht. long. drawn by an ex.
buffalo. or other beast of burden, attached to it by means of a yoke.
while to the other end is fastened a piece of wood bent inwards at an
acute angle, and shed with a three-pronged piece of iron (limo). Connected with the pole is the handle which is held by the tenth These
rude and light ploughs penetrate but slightly into the ground. (On the
estates of the Khedive, Fowler's steam-plough is now frequently employed.)
The harruw is replaced in Egypt by a roller provided with iron spikes
(l'mnfud, literally'hedgehog'). The only tool used by the native: on
their fields, or in making embankments of earth. is a kind of line or shovel
(arttjrtrfehj, The process of reaping consists of cutting the grain with a
Sickle, or simply uprouting it by hand. The ttm-ng, or'threshing-sledge',

. consists of a kind of sledge resting on a roller provided with sharp semicircular pieces of iron, and drawn by oxen or buffaloes. This primitive
machine, being driven over- the wheat. peas, or lentils to be threshed,
crushes the stalks and em and sets free the grain or seeds. The corn
is separated from the fragments of straw by the careful removal of the
latter, and by tossing it to and fro in a draughty place. The grain is
afterwards passed through a sieve.



