7 4 FARM PRODUCE I MI

triet of Egypt has its favourite crop; in Upper Egypt, between
Assnfin and lisneh. the penicillaria, and in the Delta rice are chiefly'
cultivated; while the peculiar looking indigo-plant, a rich profusion
of grapes, anda plentiful growth of cucumbers and melons are seen
in every part of the country The summer cultivation, of which the
'Sharalgi' land alone is capable, is carried on from April to August:
but many of the plants grown at this season require a longer period
of development, extending throughout the whole of the autumn
and even part of the winter. This is particularly the case with the
rice crop, which is sown in May, but does not attain maturity till
the middle of November, and with the cotton-plant, sown in April.
and harvested in Novemher or December. A large quantity of cotton
is also yielded by a second harvest from the pruned plant in the
month of August, in the second year of Its growth. Summer is also
the principal season for the tobacco crop.

(3) The Autumn Season ('En--A'ubarf or'Ihl-Dcndri'), as already
observed, is of very subordinate importance, being sometimes occupied, as in the case of rice and cotton, in bringing the summer
crops to maturity It is also the shortest season, extending to little
more than seventy days; and yet within this brief space the rich
soil of the Delta yields its harvest of maize, which, next to wheat,
is the most important ofthe ligIlItiuII cereals. (The annual yield
of these two grains is said to amount to 24 million bushels.) The
autumn cultivation lasts from August to October. and sometimes
till November. At the beginning of October, throughout the whole
Delta from .Suez to Alexandria, the traveller will observe an almost t
unbroken ocean of maize-fields, seldom varied except by the low
villages, resembling mounds of earth, with their neighbouring palm t
groves. The picture of teeming fertility which the country then
presents far surpasses that presented by the rirh maize-Olds of
south-eastern Europe. In Central Egypt maize. is also an important
summer crop. Along with it is sometimes cultivated the less common Sorghum, or hunt, or Indian millet, which is eaten bythe
wrote-st tVI'Win only. It is, however, largely consumcd by the lednins on the. Arabian side of the Nile, and in the Sudan and Nubia
forms the chief food of the inhabitants. Another plant cultivated
in autumn rarely seen in Egypt, but common in the 511115.11 and
Nubia, is the tropical Sesame, from which oil is largely prepared.

51. Farm Produce of Egypt. The following is an enumeration of all
the most important industrial crops cultivated within the buuudaries of
Egypt. Un hearing the. names of those with which he is unacquainted. the
traveller may identify them with the Hit ] ofthe Egyptian names given below. The various products are enumerated in the order of their importance.

low. TIII'V .IIIIII-IIIIIIIII rrucmumerate inthu_rduusirimportrvn

I k LH, 1. IV "the Delta of Alexandria and llal.surLriyeh, us far as
Ntiuylra, hail'eh. and in the Wtidi Tumiliit, and also in the

\
F11) um rind 111 the nusesi lit the Libyan desert. b.511rgl111m vuluarc (dam
beledi, i. e. dura ot' the country; simply called duru in the Sudan; ital.















