76 rows AND PLANTATIONS.




probably also the small quantity employed in the construction of
their temples. The best proof of the scarcity of good timber in
Egypt is afforded by the fact that sycamore-wood, one of the
worst possible kinds owing to the knottiness and irregularity of
its grain, has been laboriously manufactured into coffins and
statues. Mehammetl'Ali, a great patron of horticulture, at one
time offered prizes for the planting of trees, but his efforts were
unattended with success, as the climatic and other difficulties at- l
tending the task were then but imperfectly understood in Egypt.

"is successors were sworn enemies to trees of every kind, and they
were content that their palaces should be exposed to the full glare
of the sun. The lihedive Ism a'il, however, at length revived the plans

of his celebrated ancestor, and by the engagement of M. Barillet
[ 1869), superintendent of the gardens of Paris, one of the most

skilful landscape-gardeners of the day, introduced an entirely new

feature into Egyptian scenery. This enterprising and able man un
fortunately died 1:574) before all his plans had been carried out,

but the eye of everyuew-eomer will rest with pleasure on the parks
and gardens for which Egypt is indebted to him. While, for example,

the traveller had formerly to ride all the way to the Pyramids over

sterile soil. exposed to the scorching rays of the sun, he now drives

comfortably thither in a carriage on a well-shaded road. M. liarillet's
most important works are the Ezbekiyeh Garden at Cairo, the extensis e pleasure--grounds at Gezireh, and the plantation oftrees which
shades the roads on the left bank of the Nile, opposite the city.
Hundreds of thousands of trees were planted within a few years,
and their annually increasing shade has converted many of the
dusty and stilling roads in and around Cairo into pleasant promenades. The finest of all these trees, both on account ofits umbrageousness and the excellence of its wood, and one which thriyes
admirably, is the lebbck (Alhizzia Lebbek), which has long been
erroneously called by travellers the acacia of the Nile (the latter
being properly the sun! tree). Within forty years the lebbek attains
a height of 80 ft. and a great thickness, while the branches project to a long distance over the roads, densely covering them with a
dense leafy ranopy within a remarkably short time. Thus, an avenue
planted in 1860 near the German Protestant church already forms
a complete arcade over the road. Another very valuable and interesting property of the tree is that enttings consisting of branches more
than a foot thiek, and even portions of the trunk, will strike root
and thrive, while in the ease of most other trees the cuttings must
consist of mere twigs. In the course of a single summer the. shady
avenues leading to the Pyramids were thus formed. Almut tuu
humlmt ditrcrcut kindsuftrees, chielly of 15. 1mm" origin, are now
planted in the parks of the Khedive (about twenty in number), and
they are constantly multiplied in nurseries laid out for the purpose.
Among the most important of these are the magnificent'Flamboyer


























