FRUIT TREES. 77



s Indes' (Poinciana pulcherrima) and the rapidly-growing Eucalyptus, tropical fig-trees, and several rare varieties of palms.

The commonest TREES OF AN EARLIER PERIOD which the traveller
will encounter in every town in Egypt are the following: - The Acacia.
Nilotica (gimp, the thorn-tree of antiquity, the pods of which, resembling
rosaries (ydm-ut), yield an excellent material for tanning purposes. Next
to the palm, this is the tree most frequently seen by the way-side and
in the villages. The Acacia Farnesiana (fatnelzt with blossoms of delicious
perfume. The sycamore (gt'mmsz an entll considered sacred. The
zizyphus, or Christ's thorn-tree (mm. mar - (gm-fa; not to be confounded with tamarinds). The Parkinsonia (sisebrin, a name also applied
to the wild Sesbania shrub). Mulher. trees (mix in Lower Egypt only.
Carob-trees, or bread of St. John (Um: ab). The cypress, olive, poplar,
plane. myrtle, Aleppo pine, Shinus, Melia, and various fig-trees of Indian
origin are of less frequent occurrence

Among the an TREES the most important is the d; the rib of the leaf, lz'f,' the points of the
leaf, sn'nf; the crown, grammar). There are no fewer than twenty-seven
kinds of date commonly offered for sale. The largest attain a length of
three inches, and are called ibr'imi, or sukthi, as they come from N. Nubia.
The most delicately flavoured are the small dark brown ones known as amluil,
which are eaten fresh. The Bednins offer for sale at the hotels a kind of
date-preserve packed in what professes to be gazelle-skins, but is usually
goats" leather ('ugweh). Palm--wine (lugbi), obtained by boring the heart of
the crown ofthe palm, whereby the tree is killed, is met with in the. oases
only. Excellent brandy, however, is distilled from the fruit. The value of
the dates exported annually amounts to about one. million francs only, as
they realise too high a price in the country itself to remunerate the
exporter. The date-palms blossom in March and April, and the fruit
ripens in August and September. Fresh dates are rough in appearance,
blood--red or pale yellow in colour, and harsh and astringent in taste.
Like the medlar, they become more able after fermentation has set in.

The vine thrives admirably in Egypt, and grapes ('0enub) abound from
July to September. Wine was extensively made from them in ancient
times, and this might still easily be done. were it not that Egypt is already amply supplied with cheap and excellent wines from every part
of the Mediterranean. The vine blossoms in March and April, like the
palm, and the grapes ripen in June and July. Oranges are abundant
and cheap (the harvest beginning in September), and so also are mandarins and lemons (the small and juicy fruit of the Citrus limonium);
nitrous. and cedros are of less frequent occurrence. Among other fruittrees we may also mention the pomegranate (rummdn), which is we
cially cultivated for the benefit of the Turks, who are very partial to
them, and which yields a handsome return. Apricots are common, but
quite destitute of flavour, and the same remark applies to the peaches
(know), - alumnae (162) are also frequently seen. Throughout the whole
of Lower Egypt figs (tin) abound in summer, and the cactus-fig Clin-shdk0
is also a favourite fruit. Apples, quinces, pears, and plums abound,
particularly in the region of Girgeh and in the Fayfim, but these last
are perfectly tasteless; these fruits, moreover, are so abundantly
brought to the market from the Mediterranean regions that no attempt is made to extend their cultivation in Egypt. Within the last
ten years the banana (71262) has gradually become naturalised in Egypt.
but it is still a somewhat expensive fruit (LU/a fr. per pound). A delicacy imported from the W. Indies fur the benefit of strangers is the
Aurma sqnumosa tzctehga.'cream) Pineapple; are very rarely seen.
Fine tropical fruits of this kind (including also the mango) are only to
he found in the gardens of the Khedive, where, however, their capability
of acclimatisation has been abundantly proved.

The principal DECORATIVE PLANT: u-e roses (ward; of which the Rosa
Damascena moschata and the sempervirens are specially cultivated for the
manufacture of otto of roses), oleanders of astonishing height, carnations,





